RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2592252-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 162252Z SEP 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01520//
NAVADMIN 235/13
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//
SUBJ/FY-15 JUNIOR PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR PROGRAM// 

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/16MAY13// 
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/1OCT91// 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.40B, PERMANENT MILITARY PROFESSOR PROGRAM.  REF B IS 
OPNAVINST 1520.23B, GRADUATE EDUCATION.// 

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Junior Permanent Military Professor (JPMP) Selection Board 
for November 2013.  Selection for assignment to the JPMP Program is made by an institutional screening 
board, which will make its selections from officers who have submitted an application for the program 
by the deadline and meet all applicable requirements. 

2.  The JPMP Program seeks warfare-qualified, post-department head lieutenant commanders with 
relevant master's degrees and preferably with teaching experience to join the faculty of the United 
States Naval Academy (USNA).  These officers will provide continued officer representation among USNA 
faculty, as well as mentoring and career counseling for midshipmen as they prepare to enter the Navy's 
warfare communities.  JPMPs also provide recruiting, mentoring, and outplacement counseling for 
instructors on rotational assignments.  
Additionally, JPMPs maintain and enhance links with the rest of the Navy for research opportunities, 
faculty development, and curriculum feedback. 

3.  General Guidance
     a.  JPMPs will fill authorized lieutenant commander billets at USNA only.  FY-15 applicants must 
possess a relevant master's degree at the time of application. 
b.  Eligibility 
        (1) Active duty-list warfare-qualified lieutenant commanders or lieutenant commander selects in 
year groups 00-06.  Warfare qualification is defined as being able to wear the warfare insignia of the 
Unrestricted Line (URL) or Information Dominance Corps (IDC) communities (1110, 1120, 1130, 1140, 
1310, 1320, 18XX).  A limited number of waivers for warfare qualification may be granted.  Pay grade 
requirements may not be waived.  Year group requirements may be waived for those applicants who 
can serve at least 6 years as a JPMP prior to reaching 20 years of total active service.  Officers who have 
failed to select to commander two or more times are not eligible to apply.  Officers already selected to 
commander for FY-15 or those selected to commander during the FY-15 promotion cycle are not 
eligible.
        (2) Selected reserve officers (SELRES), full time support (FTS) officers, and retired officers are not 
eligible. 
        (3) Applicants must have completed at least one year at their current command prior to beginning 
full-time teaching as a JPMP and be available to report to USNA NLT 31 July 2014.  Officers serving in a 
designated joint billet must be within one year of completion of a minimum 34-month joint assignment.  
Officers who are committed to a specific community through a continuous pay agreement, similar 
service agreement, or who have received funded graduate education from their current community 
must be within one year of completion of the agreed upon service obligation.
        (4) Officer Community Managers (OCM) will identify year groups that are eligible within designators 
that a limited number of applicants may be selected from.  OCMs will also review all applicant records to 
ensure eligibility requirements have been met.
        (5) Nuclear-Trained Submarine and Surface Officers must be released for consideration by the 
nuclear propulsion program manager (OPNAV N133) prior to consideration by the board.
                (a) Submarine Warfare Officers must have completed a tour as a department head or be senior 
to those assigned.
                (b) Surface Warfare Officers-Nuclear must have completed a tour in a LCDR-Grade Nuclear 
billet aboard a nuclear- powered ship or be senior to those assigned.

4.  The FY-15 JPMP selection board may select up to 16 applicants from the following 16 fields:
    a.  Aerospace (aeronautics - including rotocraft engineering, or astronautics);
    b.  Electrical or computer engineering;
    c.  Mechanical engineering;
    d.  Naval architecture or ocean engineering;
    e.  Control systems engineering;
    f.  Chemistry;
    g.  Mathematics;
    h.  Oceanography;
    i.  Physics;
    j.  Economics (not business administration);
    k.  English;
    l.  History;
    m.  Political Science or International Relations;
    n.  German, French, Spanish, Russian, Chinese, Arabic, Japanese;
    o.  Leadership;
    p.  Computer Science or Information Technology.

5.  All applications will be received by 18 October 2013 and submitted per ref (a) to the following 
address:  
Commander, Navy Personnel Command
Attn:  PERS-440
5720 Integrity Drive
Millington, TN 38055
Applications may be scanned and sent via encrypted emailed to LT Mark Jenkins at 
mark.d.jenkins(at)navy.mil.

6.  The following draft POD/POW note is provided for use in the fleet:  
"The Navy is seeking warfare-qualified, post-department head lieutenant commanders with relevant 
master's degrees to join the faculty of the United States Naval Academy (USNA) as Junior Permanent 
Military Professors (JPMP).  Successful applicants will have demonstrated sustained superior 
performance in their current designator.  Though not required, those with successful teaching 
experience will be viewed favorably during the selection process.  Officers selected will provide full-time 
instructional support and serve as uniformed role models and mentors for USNA midshipmen.  The 
deadline for applications is 18 October 2013.  Selected officers will be reassigned to USNA NLT 31 July 
2014."

7.  Navy personnel command point of contact is LT Mark Jenkins, PERS-440, at (901) 874-3616/DSN 882-
3616 or via email at mark.d.jenkins(at)navy.mil.  PMP community manager point of contact is CDR Brett 
Hinson, BUPERS-314, at (901) 874-4049/DSN 882-4049 or via email at brett.hinson(at)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0296
NNNN

