UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 031256Z OCT 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 222/16

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/SEP//

SUBJ/INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROCUREMENT REQUEST APPROVAL PROCESS FISCAL YEAR 
2017 GUIDANCE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/011830ZFEB16//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/041557ZFEB16//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 021/16, FY16 ITPR APPROVAL PROCESS. REF B IS NAVADMIN 
026/16, GUIDANCE FOR MIGRATION FROM ALL LEGACY VERSIONS OF WINDOWS OPERATING 
SYSTEMS TO WINDOWS 10//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels and supersedes reference (a), guidance for the 
Information Technology Procurement Request (ITPR) and approval process.  For 
Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17) the approval system name has changed from Navy 
Information Dominance Approval System to Navy Information Technology Approval 
System (NAV ITAS).  The name change has no effect on the ITPR process or 
capability of the system.  All subordinate commands should refer to their 
Echelon II Command Information Office (CIO) for additional guidance in 
regards to this NAVADMIN, as local policy may be more restrictive in 
capturing command Information Technology (IT) spend.

2.  Information Technology Acquisition Approval Process ensures effective and 
efficient expenditure of funding to acquire IT capabilities, prevent 
duplicate investments, provide visibility on all Navy IT related 
expenditures, and ultimately achieve strategic sourcing for IT procurement.  
Command Contracting Officers and Purchasing Agents, including those operating 
at Fleet Logistic Centers may "initiate" contracting actions however; they 
are not authorized to "obligate" government funds without an approved ITPR
control number included with the procurement documents. 

3.  All Programs of Record (POR), including Defense Business System requests 
are encouraged to utilize the systems subject matter expert exemption Speed 
Pass.  In addition all PORs and non-PORs are encouraged to submit annual 
Spend Plan requests; an approved spend plan eliminates submitting subsequent 
requests during the fiscal year.

4.  The following IT procurement guidance for FY17 applies to all IT assets, 
defined to including hardware, software, maintenance, contract support, 
telecommunication services, and back office IT that supports tactical 
programs reported in the Program Budget Information System-IT (PBIS-IT) or 
National Intelligence Program (NIP) reporting and oversight databases  and 
resourced with the Navy and/or NIP appropriated funds.  Echelon II Command 
Information Officers (CIOs) are authorized at their discretion to utilize the
ITPR process to track IT procurements resourced outside of the Navy’s IT 
budget.  Commands acting as Executive Agents for Department of Defense (DoD) 
programs using non-Navy IT budget dollars to procure hardware, software, 
maintenance, support, or telecommunications in support of other DoD 
components (e.g. Defense Health Agency) or non-DoD agency programs (e.g. 
Department of Energy) may submit an ITPR for tracking purposes.  Expenditures 
for such requests will not be reported in the IT expenditure reporting 
summary.  All ITPRs, regardless of funding source, shall be properly scoped 
for the required need and shall not be segmented to avoid the IT dollar 
thresholds or IT oversight and governance.
    a.  IT asset requests of $25,000 or less, including assets purchased via 
the Government Credit Card in accordance with Echelon II CIO authorization, 
are exempt from this ITRP process.  To assist in reporting IT spend of less 
than $25,000, NAV ITAS provides an abbreviated ITPR smart form that is 
designed for local command review and approval by a designated Trusted Agent.  
Commands that opt to use the $25,000 or less NAV ITAS abbreviated smart form 
are not required to submit a quarterly spend report.  Echelon II commands 
that do not require subordinate commands to utilize the abbreviated smart 
form must submit a spend report at the end of each quarter to Department of 
the Navy, Deputy Chief Information Officer Navy (DDCIO(N)).  Restrictions to 
the $25,000 threshold can be found in paragraph 5.  For ITPRs less than 
$500,000 the Echelon II CIO retains discretion to set a local approval 
threshold amount for assigned Echelon III and below commands.  In addition 
Echelon II CIOs retain discretion in regards to utilizing the abbreviated 
ITPR smart form for all requests less than $500,000.  Restrictions to using 
the abbreviated form can be found in paragraph 5.  All requests $500,000 or 
greater will route to the DDCIO(N) for approval.  ITPRs submitted for $20 
million or greater require Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV N80) staff 
review.  OPNAV N80 will in coordination with DDCIO(N) recommend final 
approval or disapproval.  If further review is required, N80 will present the 
request to the Resources Requirement Review Board for a final procurement 
decision.
    b.  Procurement requests must be submitted electronically via NAV ITAS 
for:
        (1) Business mission area programs certified and approved in the year 
of execution by the Defense Business Council/Investment Review Board and non-
programs of record software, hardware, maintenance, and support services.
        (2) Fleet/Outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) network 
centric IT assets (i.e. consolidated afloat network enterprise services and 
One-Net including all support service contracts regardless of contract 
value).
        (3) Next Generation (NGEN) program management and network IT 
infrastructure only.
        (4) Cryptologic (UNCLASSIFIED) IT assets including support service 
contracts regardless of contract value.
        (5) UNCLASSIFIED IT assets procured using Military Intelligence 
Program and NIP funds.  CLASSIFIED IT assets are not part of this process and 
should never be submitted using this unclassified system.  Submission of 
classified ITPRs requires prior coordination with DDCIO(N) and the Naval 
Intelligence Activity Command Information Officer.
        (6) IT for industrial/base operating support (i.e., heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning, perimeter security, and anti
-terrorism force protection) including all support service contracts 
regardless of contract value.
        (7) Ashore excepted network infrastructure assets including all 
support service contracts regardless of contract value.
        (8) Commercial off the shelf (COTS) and Government modified off the 
shelf (GOTS) software.
        (9) Telecommunications commercially supported handheld wireless 
communication devices, non-tactical radios, and telecommunication service 
support contracts regardless of contract value.
        (10) Back office IT that supports oversight and program management 
operations of Program Executive Office, Program Manager
Warfare or Program Manager Air and Weapon Systems support (i.e., portals, 
hardware, and software tools, engineering services, financial management, 
installation, and support service contracts regardless of contract value).
        (11) Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation laboratory network 
infrastructure that supports weapon system replication, trainers, ranges, and 
simulators, including all service and staff support contracts regardless of 
contract value.
        (12) Small Business Innovative Research pilots/proofs of concept if 
funding source is in PBIS IT.
        (13) Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, IT assets procured using 
Continental United States/OCONUS Navy IT funding dollars and shipboard IT 
assets that support Fleet Force Health Protection operations, including all 
staff and service support contracts regardless of contract value.
    c.  Windows 10 Secure Host Baseline (WIN 10 SHB) migration.  Per 
reference (b), all DoD component organizations must migrate from Microsoft 
legacy operating systems to the Defense Information Service Agency (DISA) 
approved WIN 10 SHB version by 31 January 2017.  In order for product keys to 
work with the DISA approved WIN 10 SHB, commands must submit an ITPR to 
purchase Windows Software Assurance (SA).  SA allows for updates of the 
operating system version using the purchased product keys.  Additional 
information can be found at the DON ESL Link:  https://navy.deps.mil/peoeis
/sites/pmm110/microsoft/default.aspx).  Note:  The Windows SA Upgrade CLINS 
are not specific to version. There are two CLINS - one is a "platform" price 
(includes Office) and the other is without Office.  Additionally, there is no 
requirement to procure WIN7 in order to transition to WIN10; however, some 
engineering, software or enterprise technical issues will require a move to 
WIN7 and then to WIN10.  If that situation exists, it will require an 
explanation in the ITPR Executive Summary in order for an approval decision 
to be made.
    d.  Multi-Function Devices (MFD) policy.  Echelon II Command Information 
Officers must continue to use Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) services or 
Electronic Mall (eMall) for printer leases and procurements purchases.  If 
DLA, DoD eMall, or NGEN (eMarketplace) cannot satisfy the printing 
requirements, a waiver request and Business Case Analysis (BCA), that 
includes a justification for deviating from using DLAs printing services 
recommendations must be submitted through NAV ITAS.  All print service 
requests for NGEN, must be submitted via your NGEN command technical 
representative.  There is no requirement to submit ITPRs when obtaining 
printers and MFDs using the NGEN CLIN process for NGEN print services.  
DDCIO(N)'s NAV ITAS MFD procurement cut-off date for FY17 is 20 July 2017, 
which will allow requestors to meet the DLA cut-off date of 31 July 2017.  
Requests submitted after 20 July 2017 will not be considered unless there are 
extenuating circumstances related.
    e.  Commands shall continue to submit an ITPR for all software and 
maintenance products procured from any DON Enterprise License Agreement 
(ELA), and Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI) including all PORs.  There 
are no exceptions or approval alternatives, no matter the source of funding 
or core products that have been funded by the enterprise (e.g. oracle core 
products).  If a DON ELA/ESI cannot satisfy the requirement, an automated 
waiver request, that includes a justification for deviating from using DON 
ELA, must be submitted through NAV ITAS.  Catalog products, Blanket Purchase
Agreement (BPA) software products, and core products centrally funded and 
paid annually must have ITPRs submitted within NAV ITAS.  Software vendors 
will not initiate procurement actions without ITPR approval.
    f.  Commands must submit an ITPR with detailed justification for the 
procurement or sustainment of portals, websites, and web presence that are 
considered a collaboration or information sharing IT environment used to 
enhance operational or business mission areas.  All portal submissions will 
be reviewed and adjudicated by DDCIO(N) regardless of the total cost.
    g.  Commands must submit an ITPR with a BCA and Engineering   Analysis 
for every Commercial Cloud Computing Services (CCCS) request.  All CCCS 
requests will be reviewed and adjudicated by DDCIO(N).  Negotiations between 
commands and vendors are not authorized.
    h.  To ensure data center and server hardware transactions are compliant 
with the National Defense Authorization Act Fiscal Year 2012 section 2867 
waiver review and approvals, all requests must be submitted through NAV ITAS.  
This includes all PORs, including major automated information systems, 
defense business systems, and supporting back office IT.  There are no 
exceptions or approval alternatives.
    i.  Commands must submit an ITPR with detailed justification for the 
procurement of new Navy IT help desks or upgrades (technology refresh and 
software/hardware updates) to existing help desks that are on track to be 
consolidated into the Navy Enterprise help desk.  All help desk submissions 
will be reviewed and adjudicated by DDCIO(N).  This includes all PORs, no 
exceptions or approval alternatives.
    j.  Commands must submit an ITPR for the procurement of all WiFi 
connections.  All WiFi connections must be configurable and secured in 
accordance with the Navy’s mobility policy.

5.  Restrictions apply to the $25,000 local command approval and use of the 
abbreviated smart form for requests less than $500,000.  The following are 
not exempt and not authorized to use the abbreviated smart form.
    a.  MFD/DLA print services.
    b.  Software/maintenance products using any DON ELA/ESI.
    c.  Procurement/maintenance support of portals, websites, and web 
presences.
    d.  Commercial cloud computing services, Data Center and server
hardware/software waiver reviews and approvals.
    e.  FY17 year of execution approved Defense Business System requirements.
    f.  Navy IT Help Desks or upgrades, (technology refresh and 
software/hardware updates).
    g.  New COTS and GOTS applications not registered in the DON
Applications Database Management System and not approved for use by the 
assigned Functional Area Manager.
    h.  Contract support services that will exceed the $25,000 threshold over 
the course of the contract (includes option years).

6.  The following are exempt and do not require submission or approval:
    a.  Weapons and Platform IT designated systems not reported in PBIS-IT 
(e.g., command, control, computer, communications, intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance).
    b.  Consumables, (e.g., batteries and power supplies, surge protectors, 
paper, toner, ink, compact disc, digital video disc media).
    c.  Peripherals (e.g. Smart Card/Common Access Card readers and sleds, 
computer monitors or televisions used for command display purposes, digital 
cameras not used for perimeter security or surveillance, traditional  
telephone handsets, mouse, keyboard, joysticks, trackballs, computer 
microphones, speakers or headsets).
    d.  NGEN priced and un-priced contract line item numbers not associated 
with NGEN program management.
    e.  Consumable spare parts for computers (e.g. motherboards, removable 
internal/external hard drives, memory cards).
    f.  Personnel IT training and subscriptions not reported in the IT 
budget.
    g.  Attendance at vendor or government sponsored IT conferences.

7.  Organizational responsibilities:
    a.  Echelon II CIOs and budget submitting offices:  reference and 
incorporate revised policy contained in this NAVADMIN into local regulations 
and standard operating procedures.
    b.  Assigned Type Commander (TYCOM):  NAV ITAS Command Managers must 
assist afloat command users with ITPR submissions and are responsible for 
ensuring the ITPRs they approve for their command and their subordinate 
commands are complete and acceptable.  Pacific Fleet and United States Fleet 
Forces Command Customer Service Representatives (CSR) will support TYCOM and 
afloat command users with ITPR submissions as required.
    c.  Command CSRs:  Responsible for modifying and validating streamlined 
workflows, assisting new and existing users aligned to their command in the 
creation of NAV ITAS accounts, ITPR requests, answer general questions about 
the process/tool and communicate new guidance and policy affecting the ITPR 
process.
    d.  Trusted Agent:  Assigned at the Echelon III and below, responsible 
for reviewing and approving ITPRs $25,000 or less.

8.  Point of contact is Mr. Michael Cricchio, OPNAV N2N6BC1 at (571) 256-8510 
or email:  michael.cricchio1(at)navy.mil.

9.  Released by VADM Jan E. Tighe, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
