UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 201805Z JAN 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 014/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/FY-17 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS 
FOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/02NOV07//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/03JUN09//
REF/C/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//
REF/E/DOC/BUPERS/01MAY15//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1220.1D, CHANGING OR 
REMOVING PRIMARY NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION CODES FOR NUCLEAR PROPULSION 
PLANT OPERATORS.  REF C IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL SECURITY INVESTIGATION 
SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS. REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF
AFRICA.  REF E IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility, communication to 
the boards, and board member or recorder application procedures regarding the 
FY-17 Navy Active-Duty and Reserve Enlisted Advancement Selection Boards for 
Chief Petty Officer.  The reserve board will consider personnel serving on 
active-duty as Full Time Support (FTS) and Selected Reserve (SELRES), to 
include those serving on voluntary and involuntary recall and mobilization 
orders.  Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) personnel are considered 
under the SELRES requirements for advancement.

2.  Timeline.
    a.  29 February 2016:  Individual Augmentation (IA) evaluations used for 
Time-In-Rate (TIR) waivers must have an ending date by this date and must be 
available to the board.
    b.  16 April 2016:  Reserve Component (RC) candidates changing rating 
must be in their new rating by this date to be considered for selection in 
the new rating.
    c.  25 April 2016:  Letters to the Board (LTB) for RC selection board 
eligible candidates must be received at Navy Personnel Command (NPC) Customer 
Service Center (CSC).
    d.  16 May 2016:  RC E7 advancement selection board convenes. All 
eligibility requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval 
prior to this date.
    e.  20 May 2016:  Active Component (AC) board candidates changing rating 
must be in their new rating by this date to be considered for selection in 
the new rating.
    f.  31 May 2016:  LTB for AC selection board eligible candidates must be 
received at NPC CSC.
    g.  3 June 2016: RC E7 advancement selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    h.  20 June 2016:  AC E7 advancement selection board convenes. All 
eligibility requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval 
prior to this date.
    i.  15 July 2016:  AC E7 advancement selection board scheduled to 
adjourn.

3.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a) prior to the scheduled board convening 
date.  Requirements that are achieved after the scheduled board convening 
date will be considered late and not entitle a candidate for an enlisted 
special selection board. The authoritative source to determine selection 
board eligibility is the profile sheet.  The AC/FTS cycle is 230 and the 
SELRES cycle is 098.  Because eligibility status can change without direct 
notification, candidates should verify their profile sheet on a continuous 
basis up to the board convening date.  Commands must verify the Exam Status 
Verification Report (ESVR) weekly.  The ESVR is updated as changes are 
processed by PERS-802.  If necessary, take the following actions per 
reference (a).
    a.  If listed candidates on ESVR are ineligible or later become 
ineligible, submit a message to Naval Education and Training Professional 
Development and Technology Center (NETPDTC) N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting 
invalidation of eligibility status and provide explanation for invalidation.  
Per reference (a) paragraph 721.b., withdrawal of advancement recommendation 
must be completed and documented prior to message transmission.
    b.  If candidates are validated in wrong competitive category, submit a 
message notification to NETPDTC N321 and NPC PERS-802 detailing the 
discrepancy.
    c.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent evaluation shall be invalidated.  Evaluations that restore a 
recommendation for advancement must be made available to the selection board 
prior to the board convening date.
    d.  Terminal Eligibility Date (TED) used to compute the TIR is 1 January 
2017.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before l January 2014.  If a TIR 
waiver is granted, the evaluation used to grant the TIR waiver must be 
available to the board.
    e.  High Year Tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver must be on or 
after 1 September 2016.
    f.  SELRES candidates who have submitted a request to NPC for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) on a date prior to 
their mandated HYT are ineligible for advancement. Members who were validated 
as Selection Board Eligible (SBE) and have submitted a request for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) may regain SBE status 
provided disapproval of the original request or cancellation of previously
approved request is adjudicated at NPC prior to selection board convening 
date.  Otherwise, they are ineligible.  Commands must revalidate members 
whose disapproval or cancellation of retirement authorization is adjudicated 
prior to selection board convening date by sending an e-mail with reason for 
revalidation to PERS-802.
    g.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
to Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program (MECP), and 
Medical Service Corps (MSC) in-service procurement programs remain eligible 
for advancement consideration. Selection to any other officer commissioning 
program renders candidates ineligible.  Commands are required to request 
those candidates be invalidated by PERS-802.  Per reference (b), nuclear 
candidates will be assigned Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) 3359/3389 upon 
transfer of a nuclear propulsion plant operator to a non-nuclear billet at 
sea or ashore, or to duty under instruction including special college 
education programs.  Therefore, nuclear candidates transferred to a STA-21 
duty station will not be selection board eligible.
    h.  Security Clearance.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security 
clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication issued by the 
Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility. If the candidates 
commanding officer grants an interim clearance, documentation must be 
received by PERS-802 prior to board convening. Refer to reference (c) for 
additional guidance.  Once Sailors have a clearance they must maintain that 
clearance eligibility.  Rates requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, 
AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, 
FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, 
STS, and YN, as well as all nuclear and submarine ratings.  This guidance 
supersedes reference (a).
    i.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  The 
Navy accounting status for BRCL 32 Sailors must be verified via the command's 
Enlisted Distribution Verification Report (EDVR).  BRCL 32 with a blank SPI 
code is an invalid Navy accounting status.  Commands must correct the error 
via the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System (NSIPS) or the Sailor may 
seek relief via petitioning the Board for Correction of Naval Records (BCNR). 
Sailors in this accounting status as of the board convening date will be 
invalidated.
    j.  Refer to reference (d) regarding examination options for Sailors who 
are pending deployment to, or are deployed and operating in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, or the Horn of Africa.  Commands must submit the command letter 
of transmittal per reference (a).  The in-theater selection board eligibility 
waiver is not an automatic process.
    k.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements. Candidates must 
meet special requirements (citizenship, medical, etc.) for certain ratings as 
outlined in paragraph 204 of reference (a).  Commands must verify and submit 
a message to NETPDTC N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting examination 
invalidation of those selection board eligible Sailors who no longer meet the 
qualifications listed in reference (a) or below by the scheduled board 
convening date.
        (1) Air Traffic Controllers (AC) must possess a valid FAA 7220-1 ATCS 
Certificate and meet requirements established in NAVMED P-117.
        (2) Aerographers Mate (AG) must complete the Aerographers Mate Class 
C-1 course and hold the 7412 NEC.
        (3) To ensure the best possible candidates are selected for chief 
petty officer, ATI and ATO board eligible personnel are merged into one 
competitive group.
        (4) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel.  To be eligible for 
advancement to E7, Sailors must hold the Master EOD Technician NEC 5337.
        (5) Navy Diver (ND) personnel must hold the first class diver NEC 
5342.
        (6) Nuclear Trained Personnel.
            (a) Submarine Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor 
NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, 3366).  Additionally, these personnel must have 
qualified as Engineering Watch Supervisor (EWS). Acceptable documentation of 
EWS qualification includes an evaluation with EWS documented or a letter from 
the Sailors command forwarded to the board via the Sailors LTB.
            (b) Surface Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC 
(3393, 3394, 3395, 3396).  Additionally these personnel must have qualified 
as EWS or Propulsion Plant Watch Supervisor (PPWS).  Acceptable documentation 
of EWS or PPWS qualification includes an evaluation with EWS or PPWS 
documented or a letter from the Sailor's command forwarded to the board via 
the Sailor's LTB.
    l.  Canvasser recruiter personnel are ineligible for advancement to E7.

4.  Competitive Groups.  It is the responsibility of the candidate and 
command to ensure that the candidate is listed in the correct competitive 
group and that any issue is identified and forwarded to PERS-802 prior to 
board convening.  The below active-duty ratings are separated into 
competitive groups:
    a.  CS, LS, YN
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - All Others
    b.  CTI
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    c.  EMN, ETN, MMN
        Group 1 - Nuclear (Submarine)
        Group 2 - Nuclear (Surface)
    d.  FC
        Group 1 - All Others
        Group 2 - AEGIS
    e.  MU
        Group 1 - Special Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band

5.  Record review and communication with the E7 advancement selection board.
    a.  It is the responsibility of the candidate and command to ensure that 
the candidates Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) field codes 30 - 38 
and Performance Summary Record (PSR) are up-to- date.  Candidates should not 
include items in their LTB that are already included in their OMPF or PSR 
unless the OMPF version is unreadable or the PSR is incorrect.  Candidates 
should check their evaluation continuity via BUPERS Online (BOL).  Any 
evaluation gaps should be resolved by either submitting the missing 
evaluations in the candidates LTB or a statement in lieu of missing report 
per chapter 17 of reference (e).
    b.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual Sailor 
and must be accompanied under the candidates signed LTB.  Commands are not 
authorized to submit a message to NPC requesting information be presented to 
the board.  Third party correspondence is any communication to the board 
which is not accompanied by the candidates signed LTB and will not be 
permitted. This supersedes reference (a).  Information received that is not 
under a signed LTB or not received by NPC Customer Service Center (CSC) by 
the established deadline will not be presented to the board.  To verify 
receipt of your LTB, go to
https://ahdsedstws16.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC CSC.
    c.  The time and date LTBs are received in the NPC CSC inbox (central 
time zone) is the time and date used for deadline verification.  Although 
late LTBs may be accepted by the NPC CSC, they will not be presented to the 
board.
    d.  All LTBs must contain the Sailors full name and full social security 
number.  Additionally, this information must be affixed and legible on all 
enclosures submitted.  LTBs should be on plain white paper, paper clipped (no 
staples, binders, folders or tabs) and submitted under signed cover letter to 
the president of the board. Candidates must verify that the correct board 
number is on their signed cover letter.  The board numbers are 335 for 
SELRES, 336 for FTS, and 360 for AC.
    e.  The preferred method for submission of a LTB is by encrypted email to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
personally identifiable information (PII).  Trouble with file encryption or 
certificate issues does not justify a late LTB.
    f.  If the candidate is unable to send an encrypted e-mail, they may 
utilize the safe access file exchange (SAFE) website at
https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/safe to transmit their LTB to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  In order for the LTBs to be considered by the 
board, the NPC CSC must receive the e-mail notification of the file upload 
from SAFE before the LTB deadline.
    g.  If unable to email or use the SAFE website, candidates may use 
regular mail to the addresses below:
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-17 Reserve E7 Selection Board #335
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (2) FTS E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-17 Reserve E7 Selection Board #336
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (3) Active E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-17 Active E7 Selection Board #360
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
    h.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    i.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB, vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB. Although multiple LTBs 
are authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent information.
    j.  The LTB deadline still applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date. If a candidate is 
working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date, they may submit a LTB prior to 
the deadline.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BOL to authorized command representatives prior to the release of the 
official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will be published by 
NETPDTC within 30 days of both reserve and active selection board results 
being released via NAVADMIN. Educational Services Officers (ESOs), who are 
registered users, may access results through the Navy Enlisted Advancement 
System (NEAS) website https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil and individual Sailors 
may access personal profile sheets on Navy Knowledge Online (NKO); under the 
Career Management link, select Navy Advancement Center/My Advancement.

7.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

8.  Board members and recorders.
    a.  AC commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
AC selection board.
    b.  FTS commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
RC selection board.  SELRES commanders and lieutenant commanders are 
encouraged to contact Commander Navy Reserve Forces Command via their 
community leaders if they are interested in serving on the RC selection 
board.
    c.  AC and RC master chiefs are encouraged to apply to serve on the 
selection boards.  There are no restrictions preventing AC members from 
serving on RC selection boards or RC members from serving on AC selection 
boards.
    d.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders if not eligible.  In addition, senior chief 
petty officers may apply to be a member on either the RC or AC E7 boards 
only.  Petty officers (E6 and below) may not serve on the boards in any 
capacity, no exceptions.
    e.  Officers shall complete the Officer Selection Board Member/Recorder 
Nomination form (NAVPERS 1400/5) which can be found at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx.
    f.  Enlisted applicants shall complete the Enlisted Selection Board 
Member/Recorder Application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) which can be found at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx.  Upon completion 
of the NAVPERS 1400/2, forward it to your FORCM. Personnel stationed at 
commands that do not fall under a FORCM may have your SEL or CMC forward the 
NAVPERS 1400/2 directly to PERS-805 (Mr. Patrick Marshall):  
donald.p.marshall@navy.mil.  Only route your application to your 
SEL/CMC/CO/FORCM and PERS-805.

9.  Points of Contact.
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center:  866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672 or via 
e-mail at UASKNPC@NAVY.MIL
    b.  Selection board eligibility (PERS-802):
       - Mr. David Lanham (Branch Head): david.b.lanham(at)navy.mil
       - Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn (AC): elizabeth.vaughn(at)navy.mil
       - Ms. Dorothy Harris (FTS/SELRES): dorothy.harris(at)navy.mil

10.  This message will remain in effect until canceled or superseded, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
