RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1432315-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 232315Z MAY 13 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
BT
UNCLAS//N01650//
NAVADMIN 138/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY//

SUBJ/BOB FELLER ACT OF VALOR AWARD//

POC/TODD MARTIN/MR./NAVCO/LOC: MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:(901) 874-5805/ 
EMAIL:TODD.MARTIN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN solicits nominations for the Inaugural Bob Feller Act of 
Valor award.

2. Background. The Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation has established a 
prestigious award, named in honor of Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher, 
National Baseball Hall of Fame (NBHOF) inductee, and Navy veteran Bob Feller. 
Mr. Feller enlisted in the Navy shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor while 
he was with the Cleveland Indians, becoming the first American professional 
athlete to enlist. He served in USS ALABAMA (BB-60), and while doing so, the 
ship fought in both World War II theaters and earned eight battle stars.  Mr. 
Feller was released from active duty achieving the rank of Chief Petty 
Officer, and is the only Chief Petty Officer in the NBHOF.

3. Award. This unique award is intended to recognize a representative from 
three critical areas of Mr. Feller's life: his MLB career, his service as a 
Navy Chief Petty Officer, and his enshrinement in the NBHOF. As such, the 
award will be presented to one MLB player, one Navy Chief Petty Officer, and 
one member of the NBHOF on Veterans Day, 11 November 2013 at the Navy Memorial 
in Washington, DC.

4. Eligibility and selection criteria. In recognition of Mr. Feller's 
significant accomplishment in attaining the rank of Chief Petty Officer, 
nominees must be a Chief Petty Officer (E-7 only), active or reserve, must be 
outstanding military professionals, and must embody the Navy's core values of 
honor, courage, and commitment. The selection criteria for Navy nominees have 
been prescribed by the Bob Feller Act of Valor foundation, are identical to 
those used to solicit nominations from MLB and the NBHOF, and are based on the 
principles Bob Feller embodied throughout his life. Nominees must:
A. Display good character and humility in their achievements, as well as in 
their failures.
B. Aspire to be better today than they were yesterday, and better tomorrow 
than they are today.
C. Put the needs of others before the needs or wants of themselves.
D. Show unyielding support of the United States of America and fellow service 
men and women. Above all else, prove to be beyond reproach in the manner in 
which they conduct themselves, treat others, and live their lives overall.

5. Travel and lodging. Award winner's command may fund travel in accordance 
with the JFTR and current fiscal guidance if desired.  If command is unable to 
fund travel, travel will be at the award winner's expense. 

6. Nominations. Nomination packages should not exceed four pages total and 
must contain the following four elements:
A. Fleet Master Chiefs/Direct Reports nomination. Each Fleet Master Chief and 
Direct Report may nominate one Chief Petty Officer from their respective 
regions. Nominations must be on command letterhead, endorsed by the Commanding 
Officer (CO), and indicate the CO's confidence in the nominee's 
professionalism and as a representative of the Navy, validity of the nominee's 
embodiment of the award criteria specified in para 4 above, and commitment to 
facilitate their nominee's attendance at the award ceremony, if selected. 
Endorsements are not required.
B. Narrative description. Provide a summary of the nominee's embodiment of the 
award criteria. This may include quantitative and qualitative data. Anecdotal 
evidence, such as newspaper articles, letters of commendation and 
appreciation, and other recognition may be included.
C. Nominee biography. If chosen as the award recipient, the biography will be 
used in printed and online collateral which publicizes and documents the award 
ceremony. The biography should include hometown information as well as 
professional highlights and qualifications.
D. High-resolution photograph. A photo must also be included for use in the 
collateral mentioned above. The biography and photo should be similar to those 
commonly associated with CO biographies.

6. Nomination submission. Nominations must be received by 17 June 2013. 
Nominations may be submitted electronically (preferred) to the POC or hard 
copy to the following address:
    Navy Office of Community Outreach
    Attn: Bob Feller Act of Valor Award
    5722 Integrity Drive (456-3)
    Millington, TN 38054-5045

7. Selection process. NAVCO will consolidate all nominations, organize a 
ranking board and provide a summary to the Master Chief Petty Officer of the 
Navy (MCPON). MCPON will validate the recommendation of the three finalists. 
The validated finalists' packages will be forwarded to The Bob Feller Act of 
Valor Foundation for final selection of the winner. The winner will be 
notified by MCPON and will be announced via NAVADMIN.  NAVCO will notify those 
not selected.

8. Released by VADM R. W. Hunt, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0000
NNNN

