UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 031159Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 178/15

MSGID/GENADMIN CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES//

REF/A/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/121505ZJUN15//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//
REF/C/DOC/DODI/5NOV02//
NARR/REF A IS ALNAV 050/15, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY TALENT MANAGEMENT 
INITIATIVES.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM.
REF C IS DODINST 1308.3, DOD PHYSICAL FITNESS AND BODY FAT PROGRAMS 
PROCEDURES.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN enumerates changes to the Physical Readiness Program 
(PRP) as announced in reference (a).  Physical Fitness Assessments (PFAs) 
should be designed and implemented to assess an individual Sailors health and 
mission readiness.  The current PFA model enforces maximum body fat 
percentages and minimum physical readiness scores, but falls short on 
evaluating a Sailors overall health, and does not adequately reflect the 
challenges unique to sea duty and the increasingly technical nature of our 
jobs.  The intent of these changes is to strike a better balance between 
health and physical readiness.

2.  Amplifying instructions for Cycle 2 2015 (1 July 2015 to 31 December 
2015):  Cycle 2 2015 will continue to be administered in accordance with 
reference (b) with the following changes:
    a.  Physical Activity Risk Factor Questionnaire (PARFQ):  The PARFQ 
process is unchanged.  All Sailors will complete a PARFQ as outlined in 
reference (b).
    b.  Body Composition Assessment (BCA):  Changes to the BCA are as 
follows:
        (1) BCA measurements taken in Cycle 2 2015 will be recorded for 
monitoring purposes only using the current methodology and BCA standards 
outlined in reference (b).
        (2) All BCA data will continue to be recorded in the Physical
Readiness Information Management System (PRIMS), regardless of outcome.
        (3) BCA measurements exceeding current standards, as outlined in 
reference (b), during Cycle 2 2015 ONLY will not count as a Physical Fitness 
Assessment (PFA) failure.  Sailors who exceed current standards shall be 
enrolled in the Fitness Enhancement Program (FEP) and in nutritional 
counseling.
    c.  Physical Readiness Test (PRT):  The PRT will continue to be 
administered in accordance with reference (b).  PRT failures incurred during 
Cycle 2 2015 will be documented in PRIMS and count as PFA failures.  PRT 
changes are as follows:
        (1) All medically cleared Sailors shall participate in the PRT 
regardless of BCA outcome.
        (2) If a Sailor is not medically cleared to participate in the PRT, 
this shall be annotated on Medical Waiver Form 6110/4.  A Medical Evaluation 
Board shall be initiated if required in accordance with reference (b).
    d.  Spot Checks:  Commanding officers will conduct PFA spot checks. BCA 
and PRT failures incurred during a spot check will not count toward 
administrative separation, but may result in FEP enrollment to ensure success 
during the next official PFA.
    e.  Fitness Enhancement Program (FEP):  The FEP will continue to be 
administered in accordance with reference (b) or when commanding officers 
deem it necessary.

3.  Effective 1 January 2016 (Cycle 1 2016), the following changes to 
reference (b) will go into effect:
    a.  Physical Activity Risk Factor Questionnaire:  An updated PARFQ form 
will better assist medical providers in assessing a Sailors overall health.  
Details will be provided via SEPCOR.
    b.  Body Composition Assessment (BCA) Methodology:  The new method for 
measuring BCA will consist of a three-step process.  A Sailor who is 
medically cleared to participate in the PRT shall do so regardless of his or 
her BCA results under any of the three steps discussed below.
        (1) Step 1:  Apply the current height/weight tables per reference (b) 
to a Sailor.  If the Sailor is within height/weight standards, he or she will 
pass the BCA, steps 2 and 3 will not apply, and he or she will not be 
required to enroll in FEP.  If the Sailor does not meet the height/weight 
standard, proceed to step 2.
        (2) Step 2:  Apply a single-site abdominal circumference measurement.  
Scientific evidence indicates that individuals are at increased risk for 
health problems such as diabetes, heart disease, and cancer if their abdomen 
exceeds a certain circumference.  Thus, a single-site abdominal circumference 
measurement will assist in identifying Sailors who are at risk for health 
problems.  A Sailor will pass the BCA if abdominal circumference is less than 
or equal to 39.0 inches for males and less than or equal to 35.5 inches for 
females.  If the Sailor exceeds the abdominal circumference measurement, 
proceed to step 3.
        (3) Step 3:  If the Sailor exceeds the height/weight screen of step 1 
and the abdominal circumference measurement screen of step 2, a body 
circumference measurement shall be conducted.  Apply the body circumference 
measurement technique to determine body fat percentage per reference (b).  
The Sailor will pass the BCA by meeting the Department of Defense (DoD) 
maximum allowable body fat limit of less than or equal to 26 percent for 
males or DoD maximum body fat limit of less than or equal to 36 percent for 
females outlined in reference (c).  The Sailor will fail the BCA only if the 
Sailor does not meet any of the standards employed in steps 1, 2, or 3 and 
shall be evaluated by a medical provider, enrolled in FEP, and provided 
nutritional counseling.  All Sailors who are medically cleared, regardless of 
BCA results, shall take the PRT.  A BCA failure will constitute an overall 
PFA failure for the cycle regardless of PRT results.
    c.  The Body Circumference Technique currently employed under reference 
(b) will continue to be used to determine body fat percentage.  The new Body 
Fat Standards will be graduated by age, reflecting a more realistic approach 
in accordance with DoD guidance, which is consistent with the American 
Medical Association and American Council on Exercise Standards.  This 
approach will allow more Sailors to participate in the PRT portion of the 
PFA. New Navy Body Fat Percentage Standards based on a graduated scale that 
increases with a Sailors age:
        (1) Males:  18-21 = 22 percent, 22-29 = 23 percent, 
30-39 = 24 percent, 40+ = 26 percent.
        (2) Females:  18-21 = 33 percent, 22-29 = 34 percent, 
30-39 = 35 percent, 40+ = 36 percent.
Any Sailor who exceeds the Navy’s updated graduated body fat standards set 
forth above shall be enrolled in FEP.
        (3) The Physical Readiness Program Operating Guides will be updated 
and Command Fitness Leaders will be trained on how to accurately conduct the 
single site abdominal circumference measurement.
        (4) In summary, effective 1 January 2016, a Sailor will have three 
options regarding BCA measurement:  height/weight screening, single-site 
abdominal circumference measurement, and the body circumference measurement.
    d.  Physical Readiness Test (PRT):  The PRT will continue to be 
administered in accordance with reference (b).  All Sailors cleared by their 
medical providers through the Physical Health Assessment (PHA) and PARFQ 
processes shall take the PRT, regardless of BCA outcome.
    e.  Fitness Enhancement Program (FEP):  Sailors shall be enrolled in FEP 
for any of the following reasons:
        (1) Exceeding the updated graduated Navy Body Fat Standards; or
        (2) Failing any portion of the PRT. Sailors enrolled in FEP due to 
BCA failure shall also be enrolled in nutritional counseling.  All Sailors 
enrolled in FEP will be required to participate in a mock PFA every 30 days.  
Failures incurred during a mock PFA will not count as official failures.  A 
Sailor will be disenrolled from FEP when he or she passes the PRT and is 
within the new Navy BCA standards.
    f.  PFA Failure Determination for Administrative Separation Processing:  
Effective 1 January 2016, all PFA (BCA or PRT) failures in the most recent 3-
year period will be reset to one failure.  A Sailors most recent failure will 
carry over to Cycle 1 2016.  Note: A Cycle 2 2015 BCA failure will not count 
as a carry-over failure, but a PRT failure incurred in Cycle 2 2015 will 
count as a carry-over failure.
    g.  Administrative Separation Policy Guidance:
        (1) Effective 1 January 2016, a Sailor who fails two PFA cycles in 
the most recent 3-year period shall be processed for administrative 
separation.  Failing either the BCA or the PRT will constitute a PFA failure 
for the cycle in which it is incurred.
        (2) Effective immediately, a Sailor subject to an approved or pending 
administrative separation due to multiple PFA (BCA or PRT) failures, who has 
not yet been separated, shall be offered the opportunity to be retained.  A 
Sailor who desires to separate from the Navy will continue processing for 
administrative separation.  A Sailor who desires to be retained must notify 
his or her commanding officer, be medically cleared to participate in the 
PRT, and pass either a mock or the official PRT before 1 December 2015.  All 
mock PFA data shall be recorded in PRIMS under the FEP tab in each Sailors 
profile.  A Sailor who does not meet present Navy BCA requirements as 
outlined in reference (b)  must be cleared by his or her medical provider to 
participate in the Cycle 2 2015 PRT.
            (a) If the Sailor is not medically cleared to participate in the 
PRT, this shall be annotated on Medical Waiver Form 6110/4. A Medical 
Evaluation Board shall be initiated if required in accordance with reference 
(b).  If a Sailor failed the Cycle 1 2015 BCA, the Sailor shall be 
automatically enrolled in FEP.
            (b) During FEP, the Sailor shall participate in a mock PFA
every 30 days.  The deadline to pass either a mock or the official
PRT is 1 December 2015.
            (c) If a Sailor does not pass either a mock or the official PRT 
by 1 December 2015, the failure will be recorded in PRIMS.  If a Sailor who 
was pending administrative separation as of 1 July 2015 does not pass either 
a mock or the official PRT by 1 December 2015, he or she will continue to be 
processed for administrative separation.  A Sailor who fails any portion of 
the PRT during Cycle 2 2015 will incur a failure for the PFA, and the failure 
will count toward administrative separation.  The current Navy administrative 
separation standard of three failures in the most recent four-year period 
will continue in effect through 31 December 2015.
            (d) Effective 1 January 2016, all PFA failures in the most
recent 3-year period will be reset to one failure.

4.  Future Planned Changes:
    a.  Developing a Navy-wide Registered Dietician (RD) utilization plan;
    b.  Enhancing SHIPSHAPE and encouraging approved civilian diet programs;
    c.  Establishing Go for Green healthy-eating ashore and at sea;
    d.  Providing more support for post-partum Sailors to re-attain or exceed 
previous fitness goals;
    e.  Wearable-fitness device studies to monitor physical output and rest;
    f.  Enhance Physical Readiness Test; and
    g.  Fitness awards for Sailors who score outstanding.

5.  In the long-term, the Navy strives to move away from PFA testing as a 
calculation of BCA maximums and PRT minimums, to a more realistic measure of 
health, fitness, and mission readiness.  To do this, the Navy will 
incorporate methods of assessing sleep patterns, activity, nutrition, and 
genetic risk factors.

6.  For questions, please contact the Physical Readiness Program Help Desk at 
(901) 874-2210/DSN 882 or via e-mail at navyprt(at)navy.mil. Physical 
Readiness Program polices, operating guides and FAQs can be found on the NPC 
21st Century Sailor web page http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/physical/Pages/default2.aspx.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
