UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 191611Z DEC 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 278/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/FY-18 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS 
FOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/02NOV07//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//

REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/03JUN09//

REF/D/DOC/BUMED/31AUG16//

REF/E/DOC/BUPERS/13MAY13//

REF/F/DOC/BUPERS/01MAY15//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION 
OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE 
HORN OF AFRICA.  REF C IS OPNAVINST 1220.1D, CHANGING OR REMOVING PRIMARY 
NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION CODES FOR NUCLEAR PROPULSION PLANT OPERATORS.  
REF D IS MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT (MANMED), NAVMED P-117.  REF E IS 
MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1220-040, SUBMARINE QUALIFICATIONS DESIGNATION FOR 
ENLISTED MEMBERS.  REF F IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
SYSTEM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility, communication to 
the boards, and board membership or recorder application procedures regarding 
the FY-18 Navy Active-Duty and Reserve Enlisted Advancement Selection Boards 
for Chief Petty Officer.  Rating modernization efforts have no impact on the 
FY-18 Selection Board.  Traditional rating titles are used throughout this 
NAVADMIN.  The reserve board will consider personnel serving on active-duty 
as Full Time Support (FTS) and Selected Reserve (SELRES), to include those 
serving on voluntary and involuntary recall and mobilization orders.  
Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve
(IRR) personnel are considered under the SELRES requirements for advancement.

2.  Timeline
    a.  28 February 2017:  Individual Augmentation (IA) evaluations used for 
Time-In-Rate (TIR) waivers must have an ending date by this date and must be 
available to the board.
    b.  22 April 2017:  Reserve Component (RC) candidates changing rating 
must be in their new rating by this date to be considered for selection in 
the new rating.
    c.  1 May 2017:  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline for the RC
E7 selection board.
    d.  22 May 2017:  RC E7 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.
    e.  26 May 2017:  Active Component (AC) board candidates changing rating 
must be in their new rating by this date to be considered for selection in 
the new rating.
    f.  5 June 2017:  LTB deadline to the AC E7 selection board.
    g.  9 June 2017:  RC E7 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    h.  26 June 2017:  AC E7 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.
    i.  21 July 2017:  AC E7 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

3.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a) prior to the scheduled board convening 
date.  Requirements achieved after the scheduled board convening date will be 
considered late and not make a candidate eligible for the regularly scheduled 
board or entitle a candidate for an enlisted special selection board.  The 
authoritative source to determine selection board eligibility is the profile 
sheet.  The AC/FTS cycle is 234 and the SELRES cycle is 100.
Because eligibility status can change without direct notification, candidates 
should verify their profile sheet on a continuous basis and commands must 
verify their Exam Status Verification Report
(ESVR) weekly through the projected board adjournment date.  The profile 
sheet and ESVR are updated as changes are processed by PERS- 802.
    a.  The candidate shares equal responsibility with their parent command 
to ensure:
        (1) the candidates name appears on the selection board eligibility 
list.
        (2) the candidate is listed in the correct competitive group.
        (3) the candidates Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) codes 30-
38 and Performance Summary Record (PSR) are up-to-date.
    b.  If necessary, take the following actions per reference (a):
        (1) If an otherwise eligible candidate was not able to participate in 
the CPO advancement examination or obtain an examination waiver as per 
reference (b), the candidate and the command must submit an exception to 
policy request (waiving the
exam) to OPNAV N132.  This request should be submitted not later than one 
week after the scheduled substitute examination deadline.
If approved, the candidate and the command must take appropriate action to 
ensure the candidate receives a profile sheet reflecting selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date.
        (2) If listed candidates on the ESVR are ineligible or later become 
ineligible, submit a message to Naval Education and Training Professional 
Development Center (NETPDC) N321 and Navy Personnel Command (NPC) PERS-802 
requesting invalidation of eligibility status and provide explanation for 
invalidation.  Per paragraph 721b of reference (a), withdrawal of advancement 
recommendation must be completed and documented prior to message 
transmission.
        (3) If candidates are validated in the wrong competitive category, 
submit a message notification to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-
802 detailing the discrepancy.
        (4) If candidates are invalidated and later regain eligibility, 
submit a message to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting validation of 
eligibility status and provide explanation.
    c.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent evaluation shall be invalidated.  Evaluations that restore a 
recommendation for advancement must be made available to the selection board 
prior to the board convening date.
    d.  Terminal Eligibility Date (TED) used to compute TIR is 1 January 
2018.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before l January 2015.  If a TIR 
waiver is granted, the evaluation used to grant the TIR waiver must be 
available to the board.
    e.  High Year Tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver for the current 
paygrade must be 1 September 2017 or later.  Candidates who will be at HYT on 
1 September 2017 for the next higher paygrade are ineligible for advancement, 
regardless of any approved HYT waiver.
    f.  SELRES candidates who have submitted a request to NPC for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) on a date prior to 
their mandated HYT are ineligible for advancement.
Members who were validated as Selection Board Eligible (SBE) and have 
submitted a request for voluntary transfer to the retired reserve (with or 
without pay) may regain SBE status provided disapproval of the original 
request or cancellation of previously approved request is adjudicated at NPC 
prior to selection board convening date.  Otherwise, they are ineligible.  
Commands must revalidate members whose, disapproved or cancelled retirement 
authorization is adjudicated prior to selection board convening date by 
sending an e-mail with reason for revalidation to PERS-802.
    g.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
to Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program (MECP), Medical 
Service Corps (MSC) in-service procurement, or Judge Advocate General's Corps 
in-service procurement programs remain eligible for advancement 
consideration.  Selection to any other officer commissioning program renders 
candidates ineligible.
Commands are required to request those candidates be invalidated by PERS-802.  
Per reference (c), nuclear candidates who are assigned Navy Enlisted 
Classification (NEC) 3359/3389 upon transfer from a nuclear propulsion plant 
operator to a non-nuclear billet at sea or ashore, or to duty under 
instruction including special college education programs are ineligible for 
advancement.  This includes nuclear candidates transferred to a STA-21 duty 
station.
    h.  Security Clearance.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security 
clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication issued by the 
Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility, and it must be reflected 
properly in Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) prior to board 
convening.  If the candidates commanding officer grants an interim clearance, 
JPAS must be updated prior to board convening.  Candidates who have a 
clearance must maintain that clearance eligibility.  Ratings requiring a 
security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, 
CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, MC, MN, 
MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and YN, as well as all nuclear and 
submarine ratings.  This guidance supersedes reference (a).
    i.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  SPI 
for BRCL 32 candidates must be verified via the Billet Based Distribution 
system.  BRCL 32 with a blank SPI code is invalid.  Commands must correct the 
error via the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System (NSIPS) or the 
candidate may seek relief by petitioning the Board for Correction of Naval 
Records (BCNR).
Candidates whose SPI code is invalid as of the board convening date will be 
invalidated.
    j.  Refer to reference (b) regarding examination options for Sailors who 
are pending deployment to, or are deployed and operating in Iraq, 
Afghanistan, or the Horn of Africa.  Commands must submit the command letter 
of transmittal per reference (a).  The in-theater selection board eligibility 
waiver is not an automatic process.
    k.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements.
Candidates must meet special requirements (citizenship, medical,
etc.) for certain ratings as outlined in paragraph 204 of reference (a).  
Required NECs listed below must be posted in the enlisted master file prior 
to the regular scheduled board convening date.
NECs that post to the enlisted master file after the regular scheduled board 
convening date, even with a prior date will not entitle a candidate to a 
special selection board.  Commands must verify and submit a message to NETPDC 
N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting invalidation of those selection board 
eligible candidates who no longer meet the qualifications listed in reference 
(a) or below by the scheduled board convening date.
        (1) Air Traffic Controller personnel must possess a valid Federal 
Aviation Administration 7220-1 ATCS Certificate and meet requirements 
established in reference (d).
        (2) Aerographers Mate personnel must complete the Aerographers Mate 
Class C-1 course and hold the 7412 NEC.
        (3) To ensure the best possible candidates are selected for chief 
petty officer, Aviation Electronics Technician (Intermediate) and Aviation 
Electronics Technician (Organizational) board eligible personnel are merged 
into one competitive group.
        (4) Cryptologic Technician Interpretive personnel must achieve a 
minimum of L2/R2 on the Defense Language Proficiency Test
(DLPT) in their primary language, as assigned by their commanding officer, at 
least once in their current paygrade.  Acceptable documentation of L2/R2 
includes an evaluation with language scores or letter from the candidate's 
command forwarded to the board via the candidate's LTB.
        (5) Explosive Ordnance Disposal personnel must hold the Master EOD 
Technician NEC (5337).
        (6) Navy Diver personnel must hold the first class diver NEC (5342).
        (7) Nuclear Trained personnel
            (a) Submarine Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor 
NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, 3366).  Additionally, these personnel must have 
qualified as Engineering Watch Supervisor (EWS).
Acceptable documentation of EWS qualification includes an evaluation with EWS 
documented or a letter from the candidates command forwarded to the board via 
the candidates LTB.
            (b) Surface Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC 
(3393, 3394, 3395, 3396).  Additionally these personnel must have qualified 
as EWS or Propulsion Plant Watch Supervisor (PPWS).  Acceptable documentation 
of EWS or PPWS qualification includes an evaluation with EWS or PPWS 
documented or a letter from the candidate's command forwarded to the board 
via the candidate's LTB.
        (8) Non-Nuclear Submarine Ratings.  To be eligible for advancement, 
submarine Sailors must be designated as either SS, SU, or SQ per reference 
(e) as of the board convening date.  Candidates designated as SG or SP are 
not eligible for advancement.
    l.  Canvasser recruiter personnel are ineligible for advancement to E7.

4.  Competitive Groups.  Candidates and commands share responsibility to 
ensure that the candidate is listed in the correct competitive group and that 
any issue is identified and forwarded to
PERS-802 prior to board convening.  The below active-duty ratings are 
separated into competitive groups:
    a.  CS, LS, YN
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - Surface
    b.  CTI
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    c.  EMN, ETN, MMN
        Group 1 - Nuclear (Submarine)
        Group 2 - Nuclear (Surface)
    d.  FC
        Group 1 - All Others
        Group 2 - AEGIS
    e.  MU
        Group 1 - Premier Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band

5.  Record review and communication with the E7 selection board.
    a.  Candidates should check their evaluation continuity via BUPERS Online 
(BOL).  Any evaluation gaps should be resolved by either submitting the 
missing evaluations in the candidates LTB or a statement in lieu of missing 
report per chapter 17 of reference (f).
    b.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the candidates signed LTB.
        (1) The LTB may address any information that the candidate considers 
important.  Candidates should not include items in their LTB that are already 
included in their OMPF or PSR unless the OMPF version is unreadable or the 
PSR is incorrect.  Submission of a LTB to only state that the candidates OMPF 
and PSR have been verified and is correct is not desired.
        (2) The LTB must be either digitally signed using the candidates 
military identity certificate or a hand-written signature.  Unsigned LTBs 
will not be presented to board members.
        (3) Third party correspondence is any communication to the board 
which is not accompanied by the candidates signed LTB and will not be 
permitted.  Commands are not authorized to submit a message to NPC requesting 
information be presented to the board.
This supersedes reference (a).
        (4) Information received that is not under a signed LTB or not 
received by NPC Customer Service Center (CSC) by the established deadline 
will not be presented to the board.  The time and date LTBs are received in 
the NPC CSC inbox (Central Time Zone) is the time and date used for deadline 
verification.  To verify receipt of your LTB, go to 
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.
navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC CSC.  Although late or unsigned 
LTBs may be accepted by the NPC CSC, they will not be presented to the board, 
and no feedback will be provided to the candidate.
    c.  All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the candidates full name and 
full social security number.  Candidates must verify that the correct board 
number is on their signed cover letter.  The board numbers are 335 for 
SELRES, 336 for FTS, and 360 for AC.
    d.  The preferred method to submit an LTB is by encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
personally identifiable information.  Trouble with file encryption or 
certificate issues does not justify a late LTB.
    e.  If unable to e-mail, candidates may use regular mail to the addresses 
below.  Mailed LTBs should be on plain white paper and paper clipped (no 
staples, binders, folders or tabs).
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 Reserve E7 Selection Board #335
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (2) FTS E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 Reserve E7 Selection Board #336
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (3) Active E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 Active E7 Selection Board #360
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
    f.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    g.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB, vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.
Although multiple LTBs are authorized, candidates should not duplicate 
previously sent information.
    h.  The same LTB deadline applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.
If a candidate is working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be 
selection board eligible prior to the board convening date, they may submit a 
LTB, but it still must be received prior to the deadline.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BOL to authorized command representatives prior to the release of the 
official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will be published by 
NETPDC within 30 days of both reserve and active selection board results 
being released via NAVADMIN.
Educational services officers who are registered users may access results 
through the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) website 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.  Individual candidates may view/download 
their profile sheet via a .mil domain computer at 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASrpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Special Selection Boards (SSB)
    a.  SSBs may be approved for candidates who have demonstrated they were 
precluded from consideration at the selection board or were considered at the 
selection board in the incorrect competitive category and the administrative 
error was beyond the candidates control and not the direct or indirect result 
of their error, delay, or omission.  SSB requests are to be submitted per 
paragraph 102d of reference (a) to PERS-803 vice PERS-811/812.
    b.  All requests for SSBs must be received by PERS-803 no later than two 
years after the date the contested board results were made public.  Requests 
received more than two years after the date the contested board results were 
made public will be treated as untimely and will normally be denied by Deputy 
Chief of Naval Personnel.  If a request is delayed past the two year 
requirement and justification can be provided for the delay (BCNR or 
Inspector General (IG) action), the request will be considered.  However, it 
may ultimately be denied if the reason for the delay is due to late 
submission of the initial BCNR or IG request.

8.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

9.  Board members and recorders
    a.  AC commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
AC selection board.
    b.  FTS commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailers if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
RC selection board.  SELRES commanders and lieutenant commanders are 
encouraged to contact Commander Navy Reserve Forces Command via their 
community leaders if they are interested in serving on the RC selection 
board.
    c.  AC and RC master chiefs are encouraged to apply to serve on the 
selection boards.  There are no restrictions preventing AC members from 
serving on RC selection boards or RC members from serving on AC selection 
boards.
    d.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders.  In addition, senior chief petty officers 
may apply to be a member on either the RC or AC E7 board.  Petty officers (E6 
and below) may not serve on the boards in any capacity, no exceptions.
    e.  Officers shall complete the Officer Selection Board Member/Recorder 
Nomination form (NAVPERS 1400/5) found at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx.
    f.  Enlisted applicants shall complete the Enlisted Selection Board 
Member/Recorder Application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) which can be found at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx.  The signed application must 
be endorsed by the members commanding officer and forwarded directly to their 
cognizant immediate superior in charge/type command (ISIC/TYCOM) command 
master chief (CMC).  The ISIC/TYCOM CMC will forward endorsed applications to 
Mr. Donald Marshall via e-mail at donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil or will 
return the endorsed applications to the member so they can send it 
personally.  In rare circumstances where the applicant does not have or is 
assigned to a joint command without a ISIC/TYCOM CMC, the application should 
be sent to Mr. Marshall by the commands senior enlisted leader (SEL), 
provided the SEL is not eligible for advancement on the board for which the 
applicant is submitting.

10.  Points of Contact
     a.  NPC Customer Service Center:  866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672 or via e-
mail at UASKNPC@NAVY.MIL
     b.  Selection board eligibility (PERS-802):
         - Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn (AC):  elizabeth.vaughn(at)navy.mil
         - Ms. Dorothy Harris (FTS/SELRES):
dorothy.harris(at)navy.mil
     c.  NETPDC (N321):  850-473-6148/DSN 753 or via e-mail 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

11.  This message will remain in effect until canceled or superseded.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
