RAAUZYUW RUOIAAA0001 1981400-UUUU--RHMCSUU
ZNR UUUUU
R 192017Z SEP 14 ZYB
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO USCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
COMFLTCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
DIRNSA FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 215/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/SEP//

SUBJ/CALL FOR APPLICANTS FOR THE COMPUTER NETWORK OPERATIONS DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM (CNODP) CLASS OF 2018//

REF/A/DOC/NSA/JUL/NOTAL//
AMPN/REF A IS NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY(NSA) CALL FOR CNODP APPLICANTS
FOR THE CLASS OF 2018.//
POC/BARBARA MATERNA/FCC-C10F/TEL: 443-634-4755, EMAIL:BARBARA.MATERNA
(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1. This is a call for the Computer Network Operations Development 
Program (CNODP) class of 2018. The CNODP is comprised of both the system and 
network interdisciplinary program (SNIP) and the Global Network Exploitation 
and Vulnerability Analyst (GNEVA) Development Program (GDP). This is an 
opportunity for a select group of highly technically inclined individuals to 
further develop their skills in the areas of secure system design, 
vulnerability analysis, computer Network Defense (CND), and Computer Network 
Exploitation (CNE). The goal of the program is to develop a cadre of 
technical leaders who will improve the DoDs and the service's capabilities.
The SNIP and GDP executives expect the next class to start in July 2015. The 
program is a technically demanding three-year tour with follow-on assignment 
individually tailored to each applicant to best capitalize on his/her 
expertise. The report no later than date will be 14 April 2015 to allow 
sufficient time for in-processing, orientation, and security clearance 
verification. 

2. This message serves as the request for CNODP candidates with the following 
desired qualifications:

   a. Bachelor's degree plus advanced courses or equivalent experience in the 
areas of computer engineering, computer science, electronic and electrical 
engineering, or applied mathematics.

   b. Exceptional academic performance and professional accomplishments are 
required; as well as a demonstrated interest in and ability to perform 
technical hands-on oriented work.

   c. Well-developed oral and written communications skills.

   d. Working knowledge in one or more telecommunications or computer network 
disciplines (computer hardware, software, or networks).

   e. Desired military grade is O-1 to O-3; however, well-qualified enlisted 
Sailors, and warrant officers will be given equal consideration. For service 
cryptologic element (SCE) civilians, the desired grade is GG or GS-7 to GG or 
GS-12. Previous assignments should include experience in telecommunications 
operations, computer network operations, SIGINT collection operations, 
INFOSEC/information assurance, or R&D.

   f. Demonstrated programming skills in C or C++.

   g. Selected applicants must possess a TS/SCI security clearance and 
current counter-intelligence polygraph when they report for class on 6 July 
2015.

3. This program is intended for, but is not limited to, cryptologic, 
intelligence, communications and computer science, scientific, engineering, 
acquisition, and operations fields. There may be an active duty service 
obligation upon graduation.

4. Due to small class sizes and to allow for participants from other DoD 
agencies, Navy may nominate a maximum of 15 applicants.

5. Selection will be based on a thorough review of each application package 
and an interview with the NSA selection board. The application package should 
consist of the following:

   a. Applicant's military service record (assignment management system 
consolidated surf or VMPF data verification brief) and school transcripts.

   b. Letter of recommendation from the applicant's Commanding Officer.
 
   c. Letter of recommendation from the applicant's supervisor attesting to 
his/her technical skills and abilities.

   d. An optional letter of recommendation at the applicant's discretion.

   e. A letter from the applicant (two pages or less) answering the 
following:

      (1) Why do you think that CNODP is the right choice for you?
What goals do you wish to accomplish in CNODP?

      (2) What experience with programming languages do you have? List each 
programming language and your familiarity with it, how long you coded in it, 
and the year you last coded in it. Only include languages for which you have 
actually written (or modified) code. Include any assembly, high-level and 
scripting languages.

      (3) Other than programming language expertise listed above, how does 
your experience and training relate to the core fields (hardware, software, 
and networks)?

      (4) Describe a teaming experience that you have had where you were a 
member and a teaming experience where you were a leader.  Describe your role 
on the team and how you contributed.  You may include experiences from work 
or from school. In your answer describe what aspects you liked and disliked. 
If you have had any teaming experiences that did not go perfectly, please 
describe what problems were encountered and what measures were taken (e.g., a 
team member not understanding their part or not pulling their weight, 
conflict on the team, etc.) Describe what role you had in any measures that 
may have been taken.

      (5) Give one example of a project where you worked by yourself; briefly 
describe what you accomplished and how you approached the problem (use an 
example that you feel shows your ability to adapt and problem solve).

6. Applications should be sent to FLTCYBERCOM, Mrs. Barbara Materna, at 
barbara.materna(at)navy.mil for review and prioritization NLT 1 December 
2014. FLTCYBERCOM will forward a prioritized list of candidates and 
applications to the NSA selection board NLT 1 January 2015.

7. Each nominating organization will be expected to pay for the TDY costs of 
the applicant to attend follow-on interviews with NSA, which will occur in 
the February 2015 time frame. Video teleconferencing will be used wherever 
possible.

8. Commands are strongly urged to consider nominating their best qualified 
personnel for these worthwhile programs. This is an outstanding opportunity 
to give future technical computer network operations leaders the skills to 
help lead Navy in this vital area.

9. Released by Vice Admiral S.H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

