UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 231328Z AUG 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 204/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/FY-19 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY GRADUATE EDUCATION PLUS TEACHING 
PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30APR06//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1524.2, GRADUATE EDUCATION PLUS TEACHING (GET) 
PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the application procedures for the
FY-19 Graduate Education Plus Teaching (GET) Program.  The United States 
Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking motivated, academically and professionally 
qualified unrestricted line officers for the FY-19 GET Masters program.  
Selected officers will serve as both instructors and role models for our 
future naval officers.

2.  The GET program provides approximately 12 months of graduate education at 
the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) for relevant science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics disciplines or to a USNA-approved civilian 
institution in the Baltimore, MD or Washington, DC area for not more than 12 
months of graduate education.  Attendance at a civilian institution (CIVINS) 
is subject to length and academic suitability of degree program and available 
funding from USNA.  Graduate education will be immediately followed by a two-
academic-year teaching assignment at USNA as an officer- instructor, 
resulting in a 36-month combined tour.

3.  The Naval Academy needs junior officer instructors in the following 
disciplines (degree-granting institution noted next to
discipline):
    a.  Aerospace engineering (NPS)
    b.  Electrical or computer engineering (NPS)
    c.  Mechanical (NPS)
    d.  Nuclear engineering (USNA-approved CIVINS)
    e.  Naval architecture (USNA-approved CIVINS)
    f.  Ocean engineering (USNA-approved CIVINS)
    g.  Control systems or Robotics engineering (NPS)
    h.  Chemistry (USNA-approved CIVINS)
    i.  Computer Science (NPS)
    j.  Cyber Science, Cyber Operations, or computer networks (NPS)
    k.  Mathematics, statistics, or operations research (NPS)
    l.  Physics (NPS)
    m.  Economics (USNA-approved CIVINS)
    n.  English (USNA-approved CIVINS)
    o.  Foreign Language (French, Russian, or Chinese; USNA-approved
        CIVINS)
    p.  History (USNA-approved CIVINS)
    q.  Political Science (USNA-approved CIVINS) 

Additional information can be found on the USNA website at
http://www.usna.edu/Academics/Faculty-Information/Faculty-Officer-
Opportunities.php.  After accessing the website, proceed to the drop-down 
menu titled Graduate Education and Teaching.

4.  Community-specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional eligibility 
requirements are as follow:
    a.  Surface:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG15 Surface warfare qualified officers who have 
demonstrated superior performance at sea, have screened for department head 
(DH) afloat, and who have the career timing to support a 36-month shore duty 
assignment prior to their 7.5 year mark of commissioned service.  Select YG14 
surface warfare officers may be eligible depending on career timing and 
current shore duty assignment.  Nuclear trained officers are also eligible 
for the GET program.  Due to the specific nature of their career timing, it 
is understood that they will rotate earlier than 36 months for DH school 
timing.  All YG14 and 15 officers should contact their respective Surface 
Warfare Distribution Branch (PERS-41) junior officer detailer to determine 
their timeline to DH school.
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA GET nominations via the 
PERS-41 Talent Management Board.  PERS-41 junior officer detailers will 
assist the nominated officers with their online nomination package 
submission.  All Talent Management Board details will be announced via 
separate correspondence and support the timeline defined in this NAVADMIN.
        (3) A DH retention bonus contract must be submitted immediately upon 
selection for the GET program.  DH school attendance and the successful 
completion of two DH tours as defined by PERS-41 is required following the 
completion of USNA assignment.
    b.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG14.
        (2) Submarine Office Distribution Division (PERS-42) will review all 
applications and recommend for selection top performing officers who can meet 
Submarine Officers Advanced Course (SOAC) gate at 7.5 years of commissioned 
service.  SOAC attendance and completion of a department head tour are 
required following completion of USNA assignment.
        (3) Eligible officers will compete for nominations via the
PERS-42 Talent Management Board.  Application materials required for the 
Talent Management Board are those listed in this NAVADMIN.
        (4) A Nuclear Officer Incentive Pay contract must be submitted 
immediately upon selection.  SOAC attendance and the successful completion of 
a DH tour as defined by PERS-42 is required following the completion of USNA 
assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12-14 (eligible for first shore tour).
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA GE+T nominations via an 
Aviation Officer Assignment Division (PERS-43) Graduate Education Talent 
Management Board.  Primary criteria utilized for selection will be past 
performance, qualifications, career timing, and community needs.  Interested 
officers should contact their respective PERS-43 detailer for assistance with 
nomination package submission.

    d.  Special Warfare:
        (1) Eligible YG:  No restriction.
        (2) Prospective applicants must be screened by the department head 
board and education panel and have signed the Naval Special Warfare Officer 
Continuation Pay.  Applicants meeting these criteria will compete for Naval 
Special Warfare Distribution Branch
(PERS-415) nominations based on their performance, academic qualifications, 
and suitability for the program.
    e.  Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD):
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12-14.
        (2) Prospective applicants must have completed an EOD Company 
Commander tour, be administratively board screened for EOD DH, and signed the 
EOD Warfare Officer Retention Bonus.  Applicants meeting these criteria will 
compete for EOD Officer Assignment and Placement Division (PERS-416) 
nominations based on their performance, academic qualifications, and 
suitability for the program.

5.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to your cognizant detailer.  A 
sample can be found at
http://www.usna.edu/Academics/Faculty-Information/Faculty-Officer-
Opportunities.php.  The application package must include:
        (1) Completed application page (portable document format
(pdf) fillable version found at the website above).
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past 12 months).
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the reason for the 
application to the GET program, how the program fits into your career goals, 
and your expectations with respect to the program.
        (4) Biography (follow the format provided on the website above).
        (5) All higher education transcripts.
        (6) Chain of command endorsement.
        (7) Copy of performance summary record, officer summary record and 
last five fitness reports.
        (8) Additional letters of recommendation (desired, not required).
    b.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the cognizant 
detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All applications will be vetted 
through detailers to verify career timing impact.

6.  Timeline:
    a.  28 September 2018:  Application deadline for Surface, EOD, and 
Special Warfare Officers.
    b.  19 October 2018:  Application deadline for Submarine and Aviation 
Warfare Officers.
    c.  2 November 2018:  Applications forwarded to USNA for 
selection/approval.
    d.  14 December 2018:  Expect USNA final selections made and forwarded to 
PERS-443.
    e.  17 December 2018:  Expected no later than date for applicants to be 
informed of selection/non-selection.
    f.  June - August 2019:  Selectees report to graduate school based upon 
curriculum start dates.

7.  Points of contact:
    a.  LCDR Kevin Yost at (901) 874-3996/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
kevin.yost1(at)navy.mil.
    b.  CAPT John Freymann who can be reached at (410) 293-6282/DSN
281 or via e-mail at freymann(at)usna.edu.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until canceled or superseded, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

