UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 091538Z MAR 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 061/16

MSGID/GENADMIN CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/IMPLEMENTATION OF PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES UPDATE #2//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/031159ZAUG15//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/071159ZOCT15//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/11JUL11//
REF/D/DOC/DOD/5NOV02//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 178/15, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES.
REF B IS NAVADMIN 233/15, PHYSICAL READINESS PROGRAM POLICY CHANGES UPDATE 1:
ENLISTED POLICIES (CORRECTED COPY).  REF C IS OPNAVINST 6110.1J, PHYSICAL
READINESS PROGRAM.  REF D IS DODI 1308.3, DOD PHYSICAL FITNESS AND BODY FAT
PROGRAMS PROCEDURES.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN amplifies and clarifies changes to the Physical
Readiness Program as announced in reference (a).  Physical Fitness
Assessments (PFA) are designed and implemented to assess the health and
mission readiness of individual Sailors 365 days a year.  The intent of these
changes and initiatives is to strike a better balance between physical health
and mission accomplishment.  The ultimate responsibility for implementing the
physical readiness program lies with the commanding officer.

2.  The following guidance is only applicable for PFA record corrections,
administrative separations and exceptions to policy:
    a.  Letter of Correction (LOC):  LOC signed by the commanding officer
(CO) must be submitted with supporting documentation to include the scanned
original:  Body composition assessment (BCA) score sheet, physical readiness
test (PRT) score sheet and Physical Fitness Assessment Medical
Clearance/Waiver (NAVMED 6110/4) for each individual Sailor to Navy 21st
Century Sailor Office (OPNAV N170), Physical Readiness Information Management
System (PRIMS) Manager, (prims(at)navy.mil) if changes to a PFA record is
required.
    b.  Administrative Separation:  Medically-waived, pregnant and
deployed/operational statuses during Cycle 2, 2015 did not count as failures
or passes for the PRT.  These Sailors are to be retained and their most
recent PFA failure will carry over effective 1 January 2016.
    c.  Exception to Policy.  Sailors who were not medically cleared to
participate in Cycle 2, 2015 PRT and whose Expiration of Active Obligated
Service and Soft Expiration of Active Obligated Service expired prior to
1 January 2016 were authorized an exception to policy extension of sufficient 
duration to allow participation in the Cycle 1, 2016 PFA.  Procedures are
described in reference (b), paragraph 3a (1).

3.  Effective 1 January 2016 (Cycle 1, 2016), the following changes to
reference (c) are in effect:
    a.  BCA Methodology:  As outlined in reference (a), the new method for
measuring BCA consists of a three-step process.  A Sailor who is medically
cleared to participate in the PRT must participate regardless of his or her
BCA results under any of the three steps discussed below.
        (1) Step 1:  Apply the current height/weight tables per reference
(c).  If the Sailor is within height/weight standards, he or she will pass 
the BCA, steps 2 and 3 will not apply, and no Fitness Enhancement Program
(FEP) enrollment is required.  If the Sailor does not meet the height/weight 
standard, proceed to step 2.
        (2) Step 2:  Apply a single-site abdominal circumference (AC)
measurement.  The following will provide a brief description of the AC
measurement process for the Sailor and the Command Fitness Leader (CFL).  The
CFL will need to be familiar with the appropriate anatomical sites for tape
placement to obtain consistent and accurate measurements.  Amplifying
information and video can be found on the Navy Personnel Command (NPC) 21st
Century Sailor web page http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/physical/Pages/default2.aspx.
            (a) The CFL will start the measurement on the right side of the
Sailor.
            (b) The CFL will locate the measurement landmark immediately
above the right uppermost hip bone (superior border of the iliac crest) at
the side of the body vertically in line with the right armpit (mid-axillary
line).
            (c) If desired, the Sailor may assist the CFL in locating the
measurement landmark by resting the right hand on the hip, using rearward
facing right thumb to locate the iliac crest.  The CFL will determine final
horizontal - vertical intersection point for landmark confirmation.
            (d) The Sailor will stand on a flat surface with feet no more
than shoulder width apart.  The head should be upright, looking directly
forward with the chin parallel to the floor.
            (e) The Sailor may use one hand to initially assist the CFL in
anchoring the tape measure to the body, but must remove the hand from the
tape measure before the official measurement is recorded.
            (f) Measurement will be taken on bare skin.  The free hand may be
used to hold the shirt out of the way, but no part of the hands or arms may
extend above the shoulders.
            (g) The Sailor will remain stationary while the CFL conducts the
measurement by initially moving around the Sailor to place the tape in a
horizontal plane around the abdomen.
            (h) The CFL will ensure the tape is parallel to the floor at the
level of the landmark (bottom edge of the tape just contacts landmark), is
snug, but does not compress the bare skin.
            (i) Upon exhale, the CFL will take the measurement at the end of 
the Sailors normal respiration.
            (j) The CFL will take the circumference measurement twice and 
record each, round each down to the nearest 1/2 inch.  If one of the two 
measurements differs by more than one inch, the CFL will take an additional
measurement and compute a mathematical average of the two closest 
measurements to the nearest 1/2 inch and record this value as the AC 
measurement.
            (k) A Sailor will pass the BCA if AC is less than or equal to

39.0 inches for males and less than or equal to 35.5 inches for females.
            (l) If the Sailor is within AC standards, he or she will pass the
BCA, step 3 will not apply.
            (m) If the Sailor exceeds the AC measurement, proceed to step 3.
        (3) Step 3:  If the Sailor exceeds the AC measurement screen of step
2, a body circumference measurement must be conducted.
            (a) Apply the BC measurement technique to determine body fat 
percentage per reference (c).
            (b) The Sailor will pass the BCA by meeting the Department of
Defense (DoD) maximum allowable body fat limit of less than or equal to 26 
percent for males or less than or equal to 36 percent for females as outlined 
in reference (d).
            (c) The Sailor will fail the BCA if they do not meet any of the 
standards employed in steps 1, 2, and 3.
            (d) Sailors who fail the BCA must be evaluated by a medical 
provider, enrolled in the FEP, and provided nutritional counseling.
            (e) All Sailors who are medically cleared, regardless of BCA 
results, must take the PRT.
            (f) A BCA failure will constitute an overall PFA failure for the
cycle regardless of PRT results.
    b.  Performance Standard Scoring Tables:
        (1) Each PRT event will be scored using five categories
(Probationary, Satisfactory, Good, Excellent, and Outstanding).
        (2) Each category will have three different levels (high, medium and
low) of performance except Satisfactory where only two levels (high and low)
will apply.
        (3) Probationary is the minimum achievable score, anything below
probationary is a failure.  Sailors who score probationary in any PRT event
will be enrolled in FEP.
        (4) The new Performance Standard Scoring Tables are published in
reference (c), Operation Guide 5 effective 1 January 2016.
    c.  CFL Certification and Re-Certification:
        (1) CFLs must attend the CFL training course to obtain initial
training and certification.
        (2) In order to maintain certification, the Navy Enlisted
Classification 95PT/Additional Qualification Designator, CFLs must attend a
CFL seminar or a CFL certification course at a minimum of every three years
to maintain their CFL credentials.
        (3) CFLs may obtain more information about CFL seminars and courses
at the NPC 21st Century Sailor web page http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/physical/Pages/default2.aspx.
        (4) CFLs are required to score an overall excellent or above on their
PFA in order to obtain/ retain certification.  CFLs that elect to participate
in an alternate cardio event must score an excellent or better on the cardio
event elected.
        (5) CFLs are required to maintain one percent below the graduated BCA
standards for purposes of certification.
        (6) CFL certification course will continue to require all Sailors
complete the 1.5 mile run, no alternate cardio options will be provided.
    d.  FEP:  A strong command FEP is key in ensuring that Sailors who exceed
DoD maximum BCA standards (26 percent males and 36 percent females), exceed
new Navy graduated BCA standards, or Sailors failing any portion of the PRT
actively work towards getting back in PFA standards.
        (1) All medically cleared Sailors enrolled in FEP will be required to
participate in a mock PFA every 30 days.
        (2) Failures incurred during a mock PFA will not count as official
failures.
        (3) A Sailor will be disenrolled from FEP when he or she passes a
mock or official PRT and is within the new Navy graduated BCA standards.
        (4) CFLs must ensure that appropriate entries are made in PRIMS under
the FEP tab for each member who is enrolled in FEP to include pass or fail of
the required monthly mock PFA.
        (5) Sailors enrolled in FEP due to BCA failure, or exceeding the new
graduated BCA standards must also be enrolled in a weight management program
or receive nutritional counseling as outlined in reference (c).  The
Nutrition Resource Guide can be found on the NPC 21st Century Sailor web page
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/physical/Pages/default2.aspx.  Shipshape, the
official Navy weight management program and other weight management programs
must focus on nutrition and behavior change.  FEP participants should also be
engaged with their CFL and Navy Fitness resources to improve their physical
exercise regimens.  Sailors do not have to fail the PFA or a spot check to
participate in FEP or Shipshape.  These resources are in place for the
benefit of all Sailors and COs are encouraged to promote participation.  FEP
and Shipshape facilitators should flex program availability to meet the needs
of the fleet.
        (6) Medical clearance to participate in the PFA:  If a member fails
BCA and is cleared to participate in the PRT with no medical waivers, then
the Physical Activity Risk Factor Questionnaire will serve as medical
clearance to participate in the PRT and FEP, and no NAVMED 6110/4 form will
be required.  If member requires a medical waiver for any portion of the PFA
it must be documented on a NAVMED 6110/4.
        (7) Medical clearance is not required for Sailors who fail to meet
the graduated BCA standards, or for Sailors who fail any portion of the PRT.
    e.  An authorized medical department representative must follow Bureau of
Medicine and Surgery guidelines for waiver recommendation process and
complete the required training on proper procedures for BCA and PRT medical
screening and waivers.

4.  Evaluation Policy
    a.  No mandated or prohibited trait mark is required in "Military
Bearing"/Professionalism for promotability and/or retention for reporting
period in which a first PFA failure in a 3-year period occurs.
    b.  For reporting period in which a member has failed two or more PFAs in
the most recent 3-year period,
        (1) Enlisted members shall receive:
            (a) A grade no greater than 1.0 in "Military Bearing" or
Professionalism (CHIEFEVAL block 35 or EVAL block 36).
            (b) Marks of "Significant Problems" and "Retention Not
Recommended (Eval block 45 and block 47), respectively.
        (2) Officers shall receive:
            (a) A grade no greater than 1.0 in "Military Bearing" (FITREP
block 35).
            (b) Mark for promotability shall be Significant Problems.
        (3) For Sailors with two PFA failures in most recent 3-year period
that have an approved waiver, reporting seniors shall use their discretion
when determining "Military Bearing" or "Professionalism" marks for a
reporting period in which the member passes two consecutive PFAs.  However,
the member must still receive a not recommended for reenlistment or retention
for that evaluation period and the member remains ineligible for
advancement/promotion and for enlisted members ineligible for participation
in the advancement exam.  In those situations, insert a bullet in the
evaluation/fitness report stating why the member is not recommended due to
having two or more PFA failures in the most recent 3-year period.
    c.  Overall score of "outstanding" or "excellent" are not required for
assigning 5.0 in Military Bearing or Professionalism.

5.  BCA Spot checks.  BCA spot checks provide COs an opportunity to make a
difference in Sailor health and fitness without administrative/punitive
consequences outside of the official command PFA cycle.
    a.  Spot checks will be conducted at the discretion of the CO and are
intended to identify Sailors in need of additional support by assigning them
to the FEP program before they become a PFA failure.
    b.  With only two failures in a 3-year period now resulting in processing
for administrative separation, it is important that all hands stay proactive
in achieving and maintaining the health and fitness goals of the Navy.
    c.  It is the responsibility of every Sailor to be within PFA standards
at all times.  If a Sailor fails a BCA spot check, they will be enrolled in
FEP and will actively participate in mock PFAs until they meet the new
graduated BCA and PRT standards.
    d.  COs are not required to conduct a Administrative Remarks (NAVPERS
1070/613) counseling for Sailors who fail BCA spot checks.
    e.  CFLs must ensure that Sailor progress is accurately reflected in
PRIMS for Sailors enrolled in FEP due to spot checks failures.
    f.  Recommended guidance (not all inclusive or limiting other options)
for conducting spot checks include:
        (1) Within five days of checking-in to the command (this should be
applied to everyone).
        (2) Individual returning from extended leave/TAD periods (length of
period to be determined by CO).
        (3) Unit sweep BCA spot checks as a means to get at risk Sailors into
the FEP program.
        (4) Incorporate into the Command Division in the Spotlight.
        (5) In conjunction with urinalysis on a random basis.
        (6) After extended authorized absences for reserve personnel.
        (7) Recommendation from CFL.

6.  Commander, Navy Recruiting Command new accession BCA policy will follow
guidance set forth in reference (b) effective 1 January 2016.

7.  Prior to initiating separation processing on any Naval Nuclear Propulsion
Program Sailor (to include those who incur the third failure in the past four
years prior to 1 December 2015 and those who incur their second failure in
the last three years after 1 January 2016), commands are still required to
submit separation requests for review and approval to Nuclear Propulsion
Programs (OPNAV N133) per reference (c).

8.  For questions, please contact the Physical Readiness Program Help Desk at
(901) 874-2210/DSN 882 or via e-mail at prisms(at)navy.mil.  Physical
Readiness Program polices, operating guides and FAQs can be found on the NPC
21st Century Sailor web page http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_Century_Sailor/physical/Pages/default2.aspx.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
