UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 161607Z DEC 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
CMC WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 288/15

SUBJ/CNO RAPID INNOVATION CELL CALL FOR MEMBERSHIP//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/DEC//

RMKS/1.  This message announces the requirements and solicits applications 
for the 4TH Generation of the Chief of Naval Operation's (CNO) Rapid 
Innovation Cell (CRIC).  The CRIC is accepting applications for new members 
until 31 January 2016.  Application instructions and forms are available at
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/cric2016.  The following outlines background, 
CRIC successes, and eligibility criteria to apply.

2.  Background.  The CRIC was established in 2012 to provide junior leaders, 
both officer and enlisted, an opportunity to propose development of an 
innovative process or technology.  The CRIC empowers innovators with Flag 
leadership advocacy and financial resources to rapidly develop prototypes for 
transition to the fleet. Navy Warfare Development Command (NWDC) manages the 
CRIC program on behalf of the CNO, providing funding, oversight, mentorship, 
training, administration, and logistics support.  During their tenure, CRIC 
members will meet with government and industry science, technology, and 
innovation leaders throughout the world and have the opportunity to brief the 
CNO on their projects.

3.  Success stories:
    a.  LT Jason Knudson delivered an open architecture C4I initiative for 
afloat platforms that resulted in development of rapidly reconfigurable 
mission packages that required less than half the space and cost aboard 
Expeditionary Fast Transport ships.
    b.  LCDR Rollie Wicks is developing a next-generation computer modeling 
system, which was recently adopted as an international standard and adopted 
by the Department of Veteran's Affairs for medical systems.  LCDR Wicks also 
developed an NGA/Navy enterprise solution to semi-automate Notice to Mariners 
updates to nautical charts, eliminating a multi-year backlog and producing 
near real-time maritime Safety of Navigation content.
    c.  LT Eric Regnier delivered a renewable energy initiative to produce 
electricity from galley food waste at the United States Naval Academy that 
will markedly decrease the Academy's energy cost. Project data and lessons 
learned will inform initiatives to implement waste to energy technologies at 
Navy bases worldwide to address mandates of The Secretary of the Navy's 1 
Gigawatt Task Force for renewable energy.
    d.  LS2(SW/AW) Michael Crowley and LS2(SW/AW) Robert Kennedy lead an 
initiative to streamline onboard materiel distribution by automating the 
documentation of repair part issues that will result in a significant 
reduction of manpower and increased inventory accuracy.
    e.  For more information on these and other ongoing CRIC efforts, join 
the CRIC on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/navyCRIC, or via Navy and 
Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) at https//nwdc.navy.mil/ncfi/CRIC/default.aspx.

4.  CRIC Expectations and Eligibility.  CRIC members are volunteers from a 
cross-section of Navy communities.  Participation is a collateral duty and 
members are not relocated or released from present duty assignments.  CRIC 
candidates must have exceptional drive, passion, and vision necessary to 
carry their project to completion.  Prospective CRIC applicants should be O-4 
and below, and should not be transitioning out of the Navy or anticipating a 
Permanent Change of Stations orders to sea duty prior to September 2018.  
Members generally commit about four days every other month outside of their 
regular duties for travel, and participation in innovation events.  Project 
management is in addition to, and not to interfere with, normally assigned 
duties.  Verified command support is required for membership.  The length of 
active membership in the CRIC depends on the duration of the individual's 
project and is normally not more than 24 months.  If selected as a finalist, 
selectees will be required to attend a one week orientation session at NWDC 
in Norfolk, VA between 28 March and 7 April 2016 (exact dates to be 
determined).  Travel will be funded by NWDC.

5.  Application process.  Application instructions and forms are available at 
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/cric2016.  Approximately 12 proposals will be 
selected to further refine their project submissions with final selection of 
5-6 projects in April 2016. Applications and information can also be obtained 
through contacting NWDC point of contacts:  Ms. Cameron Cooper
(cameron.cooper(at)navy.mil, (757) 341-4731) and LTJG Josie Lenny
(josie.lenny(at)navy.mil, (757) 341-4687).

6. Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
