UNCLASSIFIED//

REROUTE DETECTED  

ROUTINE

R 101414Z OCT 14 PSN 991936K37

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FEBRUARY 2015 CYCLE 096 NAVY-WIDE EXAMINATIONS FOR ADVANCEMENT OF 
SELECTED RESERVE PERSONNEL TO E4-E7 AND FY-16 SELECTED RESERVE SELECTION 
BOARD// 

NAVADMIN 238/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/02NOV07//

REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/252221ZJUN10//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL 
SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
REF C IS NAVADMIN 215/10, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT GUIDANCE FOR 
INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE SAILORS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF 
THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN 
OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces Cycle 096 Navy-wide examinations for 
advancement in rate of Selected Reserve (SELRES) personnel and the FY-16 E7 
SELRES Selection Board.
    a.  SELRES exams will be administered in February 2015.
    b.  All candidates serving on voluntary recall or mobilization will 
compete for advancement as a SELRES.
    c.  This NAVADMIN supplements reference (a).
    d.  Educational Services Officers (ESOs) must follow the pre-exam 
preparation requirements in the exam verbatim located at 
https://www.nko.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center.

2.  Eligibility Requirements.  For the E7 selection board, it is the 
responsibility of the candidate and command to ensure that the candidate*s 
Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) is up-to-date and any discrepancy 
impacting the eligibility of the candidate, to include being in the correct 
competitive group, is identified to PERS 802/812 prior to board convening.  
The authoritative source to determine if a candidate is selection board 
eligible or not is the profile sheet.  Because eligibility status can change 
without direct notification, candidates should verify their profile sheet on 
a continuous basis up to the board convening date.  For all E4-E7 candidates, 
eligibility requirements are found in reference (a), chapter 2 with the 
following information specific only to Cycle 096:
    a.  The terminal eligibility date (TED) used to compute time-in-rate 
(TIR) for E4-E6 is 1 July 2015 and for E7 is 1 January 2016.
    b.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before:
        E7 * 1 January 2013
        E6 - 1 July 2012
        E5 - 1 July 2014
        E4 - 1 January 2015
    c.  E6 candidates with an approved TIR waiver must have a TIR of
1 July 2013 or earlier.  E7 candidates with an approved TIR waiver must have 
a TIR of 1 January 2014 or earlier and the evaluation must be available to 
the board.
    d.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver date for
E4-E6 must be on or after 1 July 2015.  HYT date or approved HYT waiver date 
for E7 must be on or after 1 September 2015.
    e.  Candidates who have submitted a formal written request for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) or fleet reserve on a 
date prior to their mandated HYT are ineligible for advancement.
    f.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must have a 
favorable investigation adjudication issued by Department of Defense Central 
Adjudication Facility or the Commanding Officer's interim clearance must have 
been granted before 1 February 2015.
Sailors in the following ratings must, at a minimum, maintain continuous 
security clearance eligibility for this cycle:  AC, AE, AG, AO, ATI, ATO, 
AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AZ, CTI, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, 
LN, MA, MC, MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and YN.  Refer to reference (b) 
for additional guidance.
    g.  Change of rate and retention approvals must be approved and completed 
no later than 31 January 2015.  This includes approvals from Navy Personnel 
Command (NPC), "A" Schools, etc.
    h.  Compute performance mark average (PMA) using all evaluations in the 
candidate's current rank with an ending date that falls within the following 
time periods:
        E4 exam - 1 June 2014 to 31 January 2015
        E5 exam - 1 February 2014 to 31 January 2015
        E6 exam - 1 February 2012 to 31 January 2015
        E7 exam - 1 February 2012 to 31 December 2014
    i. For additional guidance on computing PMA, refer to ref (a), chapter 3.  
For PMA guidance for individual augmentee (IA) Sailors refer to reference 
(c).
    j.  Commissioning programs.  Sailors who have been selected for Seaman to 
Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program, and Medical Service 
Corps In-service Procurement Programs remain eligible for advancement to E7.  
Selection to any other officer commissioning program renders the member 
ineligible and examinations that were administered in error must be 
invalidated by their command.
    k.  Members who were validated as Selection Board Eligible (SBE) and have 
submitted a request for voluntary transfer to the retired reserve (with or 
without pay) or fleet reserve may regain SBE status provided cancellation of 
retirement/fleet reserve authorization is approved at NPC prior to selection 
board convening date.  Otherwise, they are ineligible for consideration.  
Commands must revalidate members whose cancellation of retirement/fleet 
reserve authorization is approved prior to selection board convening date by 
encrypted e-mail to Naval Education Training Professional Development 
Training Center (NETPDTC N321), info copy to PERS-812/802 at advancements- 
reserve(at)navy.mil.  The encrypted e-mail must include reason for 
revalidation.
    l.  Branch Class (BRCL) and Special Program Indicator (SPI)
code:  BRCL 32 with a blank SPI code is an invalid Navy accounting status.  
Commands should take action to have this corrected for Sailors reflecting no 
SPI code.  Sailors in this status will be invalidated.

3. Rating Specific Information.
    a.  To be eligible for advancement to E7,
        (1) Air Traffic Controllers (AC) must possess a valid FAA
7220-1 ATCS Certificate and meet requirements established in NAVMED P-117.
        (2) Aerographer*s Mate (AG) must have the NEC 7412.
        (3) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel  must hold the Senior 
EOD Technician NEC 5335, or the Master EOD Technician NEC
5337 prior to the E7 board convening date.
        (4) Navy Diver (ND) personnel must hold the first class diver NEC 
5342, prior to the E7 board convening date.
    b.  Commands must verify and invalidate examination results for those SBE 
Sailors that fail to meet these qualifications.
    c.  Aviation Electronics Technician (AT) personnel.  Administer ATI 
Examinations for Intermediate Maintenance Personnel and ATO examinations for 
Organizational Maintenance Personnel.  To ensure the best possible candidates 
are selected for Chief Petty Officer, ATI and ATO board eligible personnel 
will be merged into one selection pool.  Personnel will continue to be tested 
via two separate examinations.
    d.  The Electronics Technician (ET) rating has a separate exam for ETR, 
ETV and ET.  The Machinist*s Mate (MM) rating has a separate exam for MME, 
MMW, and MM.  Administer the appropriate examination in accordance with the 
applicable NEC:
        (1) ETR - NEC 14BH, 14HH, 14RO, 14TO, 14CM, 14TM, 14EM, 14RM
        (2) ETV - NEC 14NM, 14NO, 14NV, 14SM, 14TK, 14XM, 14NP, 14GM,
            14XO
        (3) MME - NEC 4230, 4231, 4234
        (4) MMW - NEC 4232, 4233, 4235

4.  Exam Ordering.
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to six months prior to the 
scheduled examination date.  Refer to ref (d) for IA Sailors.
    b.  Cryptologic Technician-Interpretive/Cryptologic Technician- 
Network/Cryptologic Technician- Collection, Sensitive Compartmented 
Information (SCI) exam web ordering dates can be found on the Navy Enlisted 
Advancement System (NEAS) website at https://neasos.cnet.navy.mil.
        (1) ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website for 
initial exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines of 
reference (a), chapter 4.  Commands must include their Department of Defense 
Activity Address Code (DODAAC) account number, point of contact (POC), and 
the number of exams required.
Commands requesting the forwarding of exams should include the forwarding 
command as an info addressee on the message.  The deadline for additional 
orders is 1 January 2015.
    c.  Exam web ordering for non-SCI exams begins 28 November 2014.
ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website during the 
following time periods:
        (1) Initial TIR lists will be available 28 November 2014 to 16 
January 2015.
        (2) Additional TIR lists will be available 17-26 January 2015.
        (3) Exams required after the TIR list has closed as well as exams for 
PRISE-R Sailors should be ordered via message or in message format via e-mail 
to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil following the guidelines of reference 
(a), chapter 4.  Ensure a POC is included in the message.
        (4) The deadline for late exam orders is 6 March 2015.
    d.  Exams for IA Sailors or recalled reservists will be ordered by the 
command holding the service record of the member.  Authority is granted for 
these candidates to be administered exams with the command's active-duty 
candidates.  However, these candidates are still required to take the Cycle 
096 exam and not the Cycle 226 or
227 exams.
    e.  When an exam is not used during the normally scheduled event, do not 
destroy the exam prior to 1 April 2015.  Submit a request with justification 
via e-mail to sfly_n321_exam_order (at)navy.mil for permission to retain 
exams for administration on the next drill weekend in March. Ensure reason 
for requested delay is included.
    f.  ESOs must verify the exam order at the "View Previous Exam Orders" 
link via NEAS within 14 days of placing the order.

5.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns.
    a.  Refer to the exam verbatim at https://www.nko.navy.mil/group /navy-
advancement-center for exam administration and answer sheet return 
instructions.
    b.  ESOs must check the exam tote board on the NEAS website 
https://neasos.cnet.navy.mil/neas/public/toteboard.aspx often to ensure 
answer sheets have been received and processed.
    c.  Late exams should be kept to a minimum as they are for candidates 
who, through no fault of their own, are unable to take the exam at the 
regularly scheduled time.  NETPDTC (N321) is the approving authority for all 
late exams.
    d.  The deadline to administer regular exams is 31 March 2015.
The deadline for administering late exams is within seven days of receipt.
    e.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on the NEAS website.  
For guidance on correcting discrepancies via encrypted e-mail, refer to 
reference (a), chapter 7.
    f.  Refer to reference (d) regarding procedures for missed exam cycle for 
E4-E6 IA candidates.  Missed exam cycle considerations are not an automatic 
process.  Commands must submit the Command Letter of Transmittal and 
worksheet or answer sheet.
    g.  Refer to reference (d) regarding examination options for
E7 IA candidates.  Commands must submit the command Letter of Transmittal in 
accordance with reference (a).  The in-theatre selection board eligibility 
waiver is not an automatic process.

6.  Examination Results.
    a.  E4-E6 results will be provided online via Bupers On-Line
(BOL) to authorized command representatives prior to release of profile 
sheets.
    b.  Commands are directed to verify the Examination Status Verification 
Report (ESVR) for accuracy before frocking and advancement of E4-E6 
candidates.
    c.  Commands are directed to verify the ESVR for accuracy and re-verify 
weekly thereafter until scheduled board convening date for
E7 candidates.
    d.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet at the 
"Profile Sheets" link on the NKO Navy Advancement Center website under the 
career management link.
    e.  E7 Candidates share equal responsibility with their parent commands 
in ensuring their name appears on the selection board eligibility list.  
After exhausting local resources, if the candidate's name still does not 
appear on the eligibility list, contact PERS-802 prior to board convening.  
Failure to do so may affect approval of special selection board requests.

7.  Board Timeline.
    a.  18 April 2015:  SELRES board candidates changing rating must be in 
their new rating by this date to be considered for selection in the new 
rating.
    b.  27 April 2015:  Letters to the Board (LTB) for SELRES must be 
received by NPC Customer Service Center (CSC).
    c.  18 May 2015:  SELRES Selection Board Convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.

8.  Records Review and Communication with the E7 Selection Board.
    a.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual Sailor 
and must be accompanied under the candidate*s signed LTB.  Information 
received that is not under a signed cover letter or not received by NPC CSC 
by the established deadline will not be presented to the board.
    b.  The time and date LTBs are received in the NPC CSC (Central Standard 
Time) inbox is the time and date used for deadline verification.  Although 
late LTBs may be accepted by the NPC CSC, they will not be presented to the 
board.  Third party correspondence is any communication to the board which is 
not accompanied by the candidate*s signed LTB and will not be permitted.  
This supersedes reference (a).
    c.  All LTBs should be on plain white paper, paper clipped (no staples, 
binders, folders or tabs) and submitted under signed cover letter to the 
President of the Board.
    d.  LTBs must contain the Sailor*s full name and full Social Security 
Number.  Additionally, this information must be affixed and legible on all 
enclosures submitted.
        (1) Reserve E7 Letters must be addressed to:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President FY-16 Reserve E7 Selection Board #335
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (2) The preferred method for submission of a LTB is by encrypted 
email to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
            (a) Trouble with file encryption or certificate issues does not 
justify a late LTB.  If the candidate is unable to send an encrypted e-mail, 
they may utilize the Safe Access File Exchange
(SAFE) website as an alternative at https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/ SAFE/ to 
transmit their LTB to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.
            (b) In order for the LTBs to be considered by the board, the NPC 
CSC must receive the e-mail notification of the file upload from SAFE before 
the LTB deadline.
    e.  Certified or Registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    f.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB, vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.
Although multiple LTBs are authorized, candidates should not duplicate 
previously sent information.  The E7 selection board will review all 
necessary information per policy and this NAVADMIN as outlined in reference 
(a) chapter 12.
    g.  The LTB deadline still applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.
If a candidate is working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be 
selection board eligible prior to the board convening date, they may submit a 
LTB prior to the deadline.

9.  Board Results.
    a.  Results will be provided online via BOL to authorized command 
representatives prior to NAVADMIN publication.
    b.  Official results will be announced by NAVADMIN.

10.  Any additional information regarding this cycle will be posted on the 
NEAS website or the NPC Enlisted Career Admin webpage at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/
pages/advancement.aspx or http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/
boards/reserveenlisted/pages/cposelectionboards.aspx.

11.  Record review and correspondence submission guidance is provided at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/pages/generalinformation.aspx.

12.  Points of Contact.
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center at 866-u-ask-npc/866-827-5672 or via e-
mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  SCI Exam Questions and Orders at 850-473-5867/5874, DSN 753.
    c.  Exam Orders, Records, and Discrepancies at 850-473-6148, DSN 753.

13.  For further information visit the NKO (Exam Verbatim, Advancement 
Manual, and other related documents) website at 
https://www.nko.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center.

14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled, 
whichever occurs first.

15.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#3917
NNNN

