UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 301517Z JUN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 159/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//JUN//

SUBJ/PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION ORDERS LETTER OF INTENT//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces new processes to help Sailors awaiting 
permanent change of station (PCS) orders coordinate a PCS move earlier.

2.  Our current fiscal environment has contributed to PCS funding shortfalls 
and resulted in significantly compressed orders lead time.  This compressed 
lead time adds uncertainty and stress and impacts all aspects of the already 
difficult task of executing a PCS move.  In an effort to mitigate the impact 
of short notice release of orders, BUPERS and NAVSUP have worked some 
innovative processes that will allow expansion of use of Letters of Intent 
(LOIs) in order to enable greater flexibility and to reduce the stress 
associated with a PCS move.

3.  Starting 5 July 2017, Navy Personnel Command (NPC) will begin issuing 
LOIs for most PCS moves.  These LOIs will allow advance scheduling of movers.  
Additionally, Sailors will be able to complete operational (sea duty) 
screening, update security clearances, take permissive Temporary Duty (TDY) 
for residence hunting, and begin the entitlement counseling and application 
processes for the movement of HHG.  Because an LOI does not contain a line of 
accounting, it cannot be used to issue tickets, receive advanced military 
and/or travel pay, ship Household Goods (HHG) and Privately Owned Vehicles 
(POV), place HHG and POV in storage, or used to reimburse for a personally 
procured move (PPM).  Previously, LOIs were only able to be issued for 
overseas moves, and could not be used to schedule moves.

4.  Upon receipt of the LOI, Sailors should access the Defense Personal 
Property System (DPS) at www.move.mil.  For detailed instructions on 
completing the online HHG move application in the DPS, Sailors are encouraged 
to visit https://www.navsup.navy.mil/household/.  Once an account is 
established and when asked if in receipt of hard copy orders, select yes.  If 
not in receipt of funded PCS orders, enter "NAVYLOI" as the PCS order number.  
The LOI and supporting documents, e.g., a signed DD 1299 (Application for 
Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property) and DD 1797 (Personal Property 
Counseling Checklist), must be digitally scanned and uploaded into DPS.  
Acknowledgement of receipt of the application will be sent to the email 
address provided in the application.  Scheduling of the move may be completed 
with this information.

5.  When funding is received and PCS orders are issued, NPC will provide the 
HHG Offices with a copy of the members PCS orders.  The HHG Offices will 
upload the official orders in DPS and send the moving request to industry, 
which allows the move to be executed. The Sailor will be notified via email 
of name and contact information for the assigned moving company.  The moving 
company will contact the Sailor to schedule a pre-move survey and coordinate 
the final packing and pick up dates.

6.  NAVSUP will collaborate with other Services to support Navy members who 
use non-Navy Personal Property.  Sailors may email questions to 
householdgoods@navy.mil or call 1-855-HHG-MOVE (444-6683) for assistance.

7.  The following types of orders will not be eligible for LOIs: Temporary 
Limited Duty (TLD), Home Port Changes, Pre Commission units, Expeditionary 
Combat Readiness Center (ECRC), Afghanistan-Pakistan (AFPAK) Hands, 
pregnancies, accessions, retirements, and separations.  These types of orders 
have defined release timelines well in advance, making an LOI unnecessary.

8.  Commander Navy Installations Command (CNIC) provides the following 
reminders to facilitate other aspects of PCS move planning:
    a.  In line with CNICINST 11103.5, Navy Housing Eligibility, Assignment 
and Termination Criteria,  Sailors applying for Navy family housing are 
placed/positioned on the housing waitlist according to the date of detachment 
from the members prior permanent duty station based on their PCS orders, 
provided that a housing application is submitted within 30 days of the 
reporting date.  Advance applications will be accepted.  However, placement 
on the list will not occur until the member reports to the gaining command.  
This ensures Navy family housing waitlists are independent of orders receipt 
date.
    b.  The Housing Early Assistance Tool (HEAT) allows Sailors and families 
to contact Housing Service Centers at multiple Navy installations before they 
receive their PCS orders.  Sailors can search and apply for housing Navy-
wide.  HEAT can be accessed at www.cnic.navy.mil/HEAT.  The website is 
available online 24/7 with no CAC requirement.
    c.  MilitaryChildCare.com provides a single, online gateway for families 
to access military-operated or military-subsidized childcare options 
worldwide across all Services.  The site enables families to create a 
household profile, conduct childcare searches, submit and manage requests for 
care anytime and from anywhere. Families may remain on a preferred programs 
waitlist even after being offered care or enrolling in another program.  Due 
to the standardized request process and waitlist management tools, the DoD 
site offers a more streamlined approach for finding care, requesting care, 
and providing Anticipated Placement Time (APT) estimates. This allows 
families to submit requests for care at programs with an APT that most 
closely fulfills their needs.  Since APT estimates may change, families are 
advised to review all their options on a regular basis and submit requests 
for all DoD child care options that may meet their requirements.  For 
example, there may be another child development center or in-home provider 
(Family Child Care/Child Development Home) with a shorter placement time.  
The site also has an interactive map feature to determine if program 
locations are within the familys preferred geographic area.

9.  It is incumbent on Personnel Support Detachment transfer clerks and 
Command Pay Personnel Administrators to become familiar with this NAVADMIN 
and ensure transferring Sailors are promptly notified of receipt of LOI.

10.  For assistance or further information, contact The Navy Personnel 
Customer Service Center at 1(866) U-Ask-NPC (827-5672), DSN 882-5672/Email:  
UASKNPC(AT)NAVY.MIL.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
