UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 301316Z SEP 19 MID510000644093U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 223/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/CHANGES TO TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/H.R. 5515/13AUG18//
REF/B/DOC/TITLE 38 U.S.C./11JUL11//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/29FEB11//
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/24AUG16//
NARR/REF A IS SEC 552 OF NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019, 
IMPROVEMENTS TO TAP.  
REF B IS THE VOW TO HIRE HEROES ACT OF 2011.
REF C IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES VETERANS EMPLOYMENT INITIATIVE.  
REF D IS OPNAVINST 1900.2C, TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces improvements to the Transition Assistance 
Program (TAP) effective 1 October 2019.  These initiatives will improve 
Service Members preparations to transition from active-duty service, whether 
from an initial tour, following retirement after 20 or more years, or any 
separation after serving 180 or more days of active-duty.  In line with 
references (a) through (c), TAP is mandatory for active and reserve personnel 
who serve 180 or more days of consecutive active-duty and must be completed 
prior to release and issuance of Certificate of Discharge from Active-Duty 
(DD Form 214).

2.  All command triads, command career counselors (CCC) and fleet leaders 
must be familiar with these changes.  We owe it to our Sailors to prepare 
them for life after the Navy.

3.  Key changes include:
    a.  Mandatory self-assessment, initial in-person counseling by command 
career counselor and assignment into one of three pathways or tiers, 365 days 
or more prior to separation to tailor TAP to the Sailors needs.
    b.  Mandatory completion of pre-separation counseling conducted during 
first day of transition class.
    c.  Mandatory Department of Labor Employment Workshop is condensed to 1-
day instead of 3 days.
    d.  Completion of a 2-day track during days 4 and 5 of transition course 
for those in Tier III (Sailors in other tiers can still attend).

4.  TAP is comprised of five key components:
    a.  Mandatory self-assessment and initial counseling to be completed 365 
days or more prior to release from active-duty, which must include:
        (1) Completion of a self-assessment using the Department of Defense 
(DoD) self-assessment worksheet and counseling tool to determine the most 
appropriate transition pathway/tier prior to commencing the transition 
process.
        (2) Completion of initial in-person counseling conducted by the 
command career counselor.
        (3) Assignment of Service Members to one of three career readiness 
tiers (Tier I, II, or III) based on the individual preparedness to 
successfully transition as determined by the initial counseling and self-
assessment.  Commanders are responsible for ensuring that Sailors complete 
the appropriate Career Readiness Standards (CRS) based on assigned tier.
        (4) Initiation of Individual Transition Plan (ITP).
        (5) Documentation of tier assignment and initial counseling 
completion on Service Members Preparation Counseling Checklist (DD Form 2648) 
via eForm in Defense Manpower and Data Center (DMDC) DoDTAP page.
    b.  Mandatory Pre-Separation counseling to be commenced 365 days or more 
prior to release from active-duty:
        (1) Preferred method is group-setting during Day one of Transition 
class at the Fleet and Family Support Center (FFSC).
        (2) Individual Pre-Separation counseling must be completed by the 
command transition officer for those approved to complete TAP via Joint 
Knowledge Online (JKO).
        (3) Completion must be documented on DD Form 2648 in DMDC DoDTAP 
website.
    c.  Mandatory Transition Core Curriculum Course (formerly transition 
GPS):
        (1) Attendance at Department of Defense Transition day (all Service 
Members) which includes My Transition, Military Occupational Code crosswalk 
and financial planning.
        (2) Veterans Administration benefits and service brief for all 
Service Members.
        (3) Department of Labor 1-day Employment Workshop for all Service 
Members with limited exemptions.
    d.  Selection of 2-Day Track:  Service Members in Tier I and II may be 
waived from participating in tracks.  Tier III assigned personnel must attend 
at least one of the following tracks.
        (1) My Employment
        (2) My Education
        (3) My Vo-tech
        (4) My Entrepreneurship
    e.  Mandatory Capstone event completed no later than 90 days prior to 
release from active-duty to verify that Service Members have met their CRS 
and received the transition services they requested.
        (1) Preferred method is to attend a Capstone event conducted by 
transition counselors at Navy Transition sites (FFSC) in small group (less 
than 25) seminars.
        (2) For those unable to attend a transition site Capstone event due 
to operational commitments or short notice separations, a local Capstone with 
a transition counselor (CCC or designated representative) must be conducted 
to verify CRS.
     f.  Service Members who have not completed a DD Form 2648 by 1 October 
2019, must meet the new requirements.

5.  Responsibilities:
    a.  Separating personnel must report to Transition class with the 
following required materials for their own personal use in budgeting and 
drafting of resume:
        (1) Their Verification of Military Education and Training report
        (2) ITP template
        (3) Last five Fitness/Evaluations Reports
        (4) Most current Leave and Earnings Statement
        (5) Current credit report
        (6) Transcripts (Smart, Joint Service Transcripts) if applicable
        (7) DoD self-service (DS) logon and e-benefit registration (be 
registered with logon/password)
    b.  Reserve Component Service Members on active-duty orders (other than 
attendance at a service school) greater than 180 days must complete all 
transition requirements prior to release from active-duty.  Reservists under 
New Accession Training (NAT) orders are exempt from TAP requirements.
        (1) Initial counseling must be completed at the Navy Operational 
Support Center/Navy Reserve Activity within 30 days of notification of 
mobilization, Active Duty Operational Support, or Active Duty for Training 
orders greater than 180 days.  The supported active-duty command will ensure 
pre-separation counseling and all TAP requirements are completed prior to the 
end of orders greater than 180 days.
        (2) Reserve Component Service Members on definite recall orders will 
follow active duty TAP guidance.
        (3) Tracking and recording of completion of TAP requirements is the 
responsibility of the command where reservists are assigned while on active-
duty.
    c.  CCC/Designated transition representative must continue to ensure 
transitioning Service Members receive initial counseling and understand all 
TAP requirements.
    d.  CCC/Designated transition representative must provide the transition 
tracking report to their Commanding Officer as part of the CCC monthly 
report.
    e.  Commanders must ensure transitioning personnel participate in the TAP 
as required by law.  Ensure personnel are exempt from normal duty a full 24-
hours during each workshop/briefing day and 12-hours immediately preceding 
attendance at the transition course.

6.  Information on TAP can be found under the 21st Century Sailor tab at:  
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/sailor-and-family-support
    a.  Self-assessment worksheet and counseling tool.
    b.  Chart of required TAP components and CRS required per each Tier.
    c.  Additional resources.

7.  Other provisions of reference (d) remain in effect.  Additional updates 
will be provided once DoD policy guidance is released.

8.  Points of contact:
    a.  General policy questions:  Mr. Tom Albert, OPNAV N170C, 
tom.albert(at)navy.mil, (901)874-4254/DSN 882-4254.
    b.  Specific execution questions:  Mr. Anthony Stevens, CNIC (N91), 
anthony.stevens1(at)navy.mil, (202)433-4541/DSN 288-4541.
    c.  Reserve policy questions: LCDR Kari Imperatore, OCNR, 
aldebaran.imperatore(at)navy.mil, (703)614-9844/DSN 224-9844.
    d.  Reserve execution questions:  NCCM Kimberly Cedar, CNRFC, 
kimberly.cedar(at)navy.mil, (757)322-5774/DSN 262-5774.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

