UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 231427Z DEC 14

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-15 CHIEF DEFENSE COUNSEL FOR MILITARY COMMISSIONS 
AND LEGAL COUNSEL TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (CJCS) 
SELECTION BOARDS// 

NAVADMIN 282/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

RMKS/1.  This announces the notice of convening date for subject selection 
boards as 2 March 2015.  The following list indicates the name, active-duty 
list number, and date of rank of the senior and junior officers on the 
active-duty list, who are eligible for consideration as of the date of this 
NAVADMIN.
Sr Eligible * Modzelewski, M.   010214-50  1 JUN 03
Jr Eligible * Costello, T.      012543-00  1 OCT 12
Officers who have served in any of the following organizations are excluded 
from consideration by the FY-15 Chief Defense Counsel for Military 
Commissions selection board: (1) Office of the Convening Authority for 
Military Commissions; (2) Office of the Chief Prosecutor for Military 
Commissions; (3) Military Commissions Trial Judiciary; and (4) United States 
Court of Military Commissions Review.

2.  The following guidance is provided:  these selection boards will 
recommend two officer*s for appointment, one as Legal Counsel to the CJCS and 
the other as Chief Defense Counsel for Military Commissions.  The boards will 
consider judge advocates from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps.  No 
weight will be given to branch of service or source of commission.

3.  Eligible officers not wanting to be considered by these boards are 
strongly encouraged to submit a request to the President of the
FY-15 Chief Defense Counsel for Military Commissions and Legal Counsel to the 
CJCS selection boards as directed below, indicating the desire that their 
record not be considered.  Such request may be submitted via email to (Pers-
4416B) (CDR Heather Watts, JAGC, USN) at the email listed in para 7 below.  
Officers submitting requests not to be considered will not be eligible and 
their records will not be presented to the boards for consideration.

4.  The officer selected as Legal Counsel to the CJCS should have significant 
joint experience, defined as:  having completed at least one year in the 
grade of O-4 through O-6 on the joint staff, a combatant command, the Office 
of Secretary of Defense, a Joint Task Force (JTF), or a Defense Agency.  
Other significant joint duty while assigned to a JTF may be calculated 
cumulatively, including assignments to joint individual augmentation 
(IAa)/overseas contingency operations (previously referred to as Global War 
on Terrorism support assignment) billets.

5.  A summary of each eligible officer*s joint duty experience will be 
considered by the board.  The joint duty experience summary form will be 
provided to individual eligible officers by SEPCOR.  All eligible officers 
who do not request non-consideration must populate the joint duty experience 
summary document and submit to
(Pers-4416B) (CDR Heather Watts, JAGC, USN) via email NLT 16 January 2015.

6.  Upon approval by the President of the United States, the officer selected 
will be appointed to the permanent grade of brigadier general or rear admiral 
(lower half).

7.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a selection board.
All correspondence must arrive not later than 16 January 2015 and shall be 
addressed to:
Navy personnel command (Pers-4416B)
Attn:  CDR Heather Watts, JAGC, USN
5720 Integrity Drive
Millington, TN 38055-4416
Fax: (901) 874-2679
E-mail: heather.watts(at)navy.mil
If you are sending a letter via fedex use the following address:
Navy Personnel Command (Pers 4416B)
Attn: CDR Heather Watts, JAGC, USN
Bldg 791, Room B112
5750 Commitment Loop
Millington, TN  38055-4416
Written communication may call to the attention of the board any matter 
concerning himself/herself which the officer considers important.  The 
written communication may include, as enclosures, correspondence from any 
individual concerning the eligible officer.
Correspondence not originated by the eligible officer, including endorsements 
to the officer's letter and letters written on behalf of that officer, must 
contain a written acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she 
desires such correspondence be presented to the board.  Correspondence 
without such acknowledgement is considered third party correspondence and 
will be returned.
Classified correspondence will not be accepted.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

