UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 161248Z MAR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 063/15

SUBJ/OPERATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AWARDS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/MAR//
REF/A/DOC/SECNAVINST 4101.2/05MAR2007//
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/301751 OCT 09//
REF/C/MSG/ SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/261707Z JAN 15//
REF/D/MSG/COMUSFLTFORCOM 090900Z FEB 15//
POC/JAMES GRIFFIN/LCDR/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N45E/TEL: (703) 695-5131//
NARR/REF A ESTABLISHED THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY ENERGY CONSERVATION AWARDS 
TO RECOGNIZE NAVY AND MARINE CORPS ACTIVITIES FOR OUTSTANDING ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
IN ENERGY CONSERVATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DURING THE PRECEDING FISCAL 
YEAR.  REF B IS SECNAV'S ENERGY MESSAGE TO THE FLEET.  REF C IS ANNUAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND ENERGY CONSERVATION AWARD MESSAGE. REF D IS 
SECNAV ENERGY AND WATER MANAGEMENT AWARDS GUIDANCE//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces criteria for the operational energy 
component of the FY14 Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) Energy Conservation 
Awards program IAW reference (a).  Although this program has been in 
existence for over a decade, it has taken on increased significance since 
2009, when reference (b) announced SECNAV's Department of the Navy (DoN) 
energy targets and established new overall goals for alternative energy use, 
energy conservation, and efficiency.  Energy conservation (ENCON) is a 
critical component of energy security, and is one of SECNAV's top priorities. 
Since energy is a key enabler for our warfighting capability, ENCON directly 
supports the tenet of warfighting first.  ENCON also provides the individual 
ship, squadron, and expeditionary CO and the Fleet Commander an added combat 
capability, ensuring that we can operate forward for a greater period of 
time.  In order to be ready, we must create a warrior culture that 
incorporates judicious energy usage into every part of how we operate on a 
day-to-day basis.  ENCON is the first step to achieve a secure energy future 
and promote SECNAV's goals, while aligning to the CNO*s tenets.

2.  The Energy Conservation Awards Program promotes excellence in energy 
management and energy conservation within the DoN.  These efficiency efforts 
are integral to the development of warfighting capabilities that result in 
choices for the operational commander.  Recognition will be given for 
outstanding leadership in energy management; innovations in the improvement 
of energy efficiency; and energy conserving approaches to training, daily 
operations, and maintenance.

3.  All ships, squadrons (active operational fleet squadrons attached to a 
type wing), and expeditionary units are strongly encouraged to participate in 
this program as an effective means of promoting innovative and efficient 
energy management within the Navy.  The intent is to recognize achievements 
at the unit level.  Per reference (c), categories for units eligible for 
operational energy awards are:
    A.  Large Ship:  crew 400 or greater
    B.  Medium Ship:  crew size 250 to 399
    C.  Small Ship:  crew size less than 250
    D.  Commander, Naval Air Force Atlantic (CNAL) Aviation Squadron
    E.  Commander, Naval Air Force, US Pacific Fleet (CNAP) Aviation Squadron
    F.  Navy Expeditionary Unit

4.  Energy Conservation Awards are based on the following criteria:
A.	Shipboard energy conservation awards
        (1) Total energy saved (45 possible points):  Total energy saved in 
FY14 as calculated in barrels, compared to prior year ENCON baselines for 
underway, not underway, and gains/losses by inventory.  The ENCON baselines 
are a rolling three-year average with a one-year lag, and are based on Navy 
Energy Usage Reporting System (NEURS) data.  For example, the FY14 baseline 
years are FY13, FY12, and FY11.  Ships may view additional details, such as 
class average baseline for FY14 and quarterly fuel reports, at the ENCON 
website http://www.i-encon.com.  Ships should use these fuel performance 
reports to determine total energy savings and provide a detailed description 
of actions taken to achieve the savings identified.  Ships may use the ENCON 
guide and checklist posted on the website as a reference.  Operational 
savings achieved by operating more efficiently both underway and not underway 
are primary award criteria.
        (2) Cold iron energy saved (10 possible points):  Up to 10 points 
will be awarded for pier side shore power (cold iron) energy savings achieved 
by reducing hotel load demands while optimizing cold-iron support.  Provide a 
detailed description of actions taken to achieve the savings identified.  
Ships that are stationed at piers that do not have individual ship kw 
metering can qualify for the full 10 pts by documenting ENCON actions taken 
while on shore power, and providing kw load data before and after instituting 
these measures.
        (3) Awareness and training (20 possible points):
            (A) ENCON standard procedures are reflected in the ship*s 
standard operating procedures (SOP) 10 pts.
            (B) Ship has conducted internal ENCON training or received ENCON 
training led by the i-ENCON team or fleet representatives.  Ships must 
present documented instances of internal or external ENCON training and are 
awarded 5 points per instance for a maximum of 10 points.
        (4) Innovation (25 points):
(A) Any new ideas and innovative features that make the approach
to ENCON unique and/or achieve technical or economic benefits, other than 
those listed in the ENCON guide or check list will earn additional points.  
To be eligible, initiatives must be posted to the Navy energy lessons learned 
site at https://www.jllis.mil/navy/.
(B) Ship has incorporated ENCON energy initiatives into publications, 
articles, and training materials (beyond SOPs).
        (5) Tie-breakers * if two ships earn the same number of points in 
categories (1)-(3), the first tie-breaker goes to the ship with the higher 
innovation grade, since creative solutions in our approach to energy usage 
will be critical to getting the most from a new Navy-wide energy culture.
        (6) Per reference (d), Commanders should look to those commands 
nominated and selected for these prestigious awards when considering 
accomplishments for the energy component grade to the Battle Efficiency *E*.
        (7) Award submissions will be routed through TYCOMs in the chain of 
command.  Contact TYCOM reps for award submission template.  TYCOMs will 
recommend award winners via USFF and CPF to OPNAV N45 NLT 1 June 2015 for 
approval and announcement by SECNAV.  The awards ceremony is tentatively 
scheduled for October 2015.  Details and location to be provided SEPCOR.
B.	Aviation squadron awards
        (1) Operational efficiency (45 points):  Operational efficiency shall 
be calculated from monthly fuel consumption and flying hours as documented in 
the Budget OPTAR Report.  Annual squadron fuel consumption shall be 
normalized by flight hour execution and fleet readiness training plan 
phasing.  Points shall be allocated according to demonstrated operational 
energy efficiency, relative to other squadrons of a given aircraft type.
        (2) Awareness and training (30 possible points):  Squadrons shall 
demonstrate commitment to Navy energy guidance through internal awareness and 
training initiatives.  Publications, articles, and training material shall 
reinforce fleet energy initiatives.  Standard operating procedures shall be 
aligned with fleet-endorsed energy conservation best practices.
        (3) Innovation (25 points):  Squadrons are encouraged to seek 
innovative energy saving practices that do not impact safety, mission or 
readiness.  Points shall be allocated for operational impact, uniqueness of 
effort, and scalability to other aviation communities.  Innovation ideas are 
to be submitted to http://airencon.dodlive.mil/.
        (4) Tie-breakers * if two squadrons earn the same number of points in 
categories (1) and (2), the first tie-breaker goes to the squadron with the 
higher innovation grade, since creative solutions in our approach to energy 
usage will be critical to getting the most from a new Navy-wide energy 
culture.
        (5) Eligibility.  All active duty Navy operational fleet squadrons 
attached to a Type Wing are eligible for the SECNAV Aviation Energy 
Conservation Award.  Other squadrons such as fleet replacement squadrons or 
test and evaluation squadrons will not be considered for the award.  An award 
application package must be submitted via the respective type wing commander 
to receive consideration.  Each type wing commander may nominate one eligible 
squadron from each applicable aircraft type as a SECNAV energy award 
finalist.
        (6) Award submissions will be routed through TYCOMS in the chain of 
command to the CNAP Air ENCON program office.  Contact CNAL or CNAP reps for 
award submission template.  CNAL and CNAP will recommend award winners to 
OPNAV N45 NLT 1 June 2015 for approval and announcement by SECNAV.  The 
awards ceremony is tentatively scheduled for October 2015.  Details and 
location to be provided SEPCOR.
C.	Expeditionary unit awards
        (1) Demonstrated increased efficiency (40 points):  Increased 
efficiency in energy utilization including, but not limited to increased 
overall function per energy unit; increased combat capability per unit of 
fuel; total vehicle or machine fuel savings vs previous years* usage or 
projected usage; electricity savings vs previous year*s usage or projected 
usage; decreased support costs; or other related energy efficiencies or 
savings not specifically listed in this message but that are quantifiable and 
replicable.
        (2) Potential for duplication (30 points):  The potential of the 
idea(s) within the DoN and DoD and the potential force-wide impact across its 
entire scope of implementation.
        (3) Return on investment (20 points):  The return on investment as 
measured by the amount of resources saved vs expenditure of resources 
required to implement the energy-saving initiative.
        (4) Innovation (10 points):  The relative creativity/uniqueness of 
proposed initiatives in training, policies, tactics, operational or 
administrative procedures, organizational behavior, or other factors not 
specifically called out in this message.
        (5) Tie-breakers * if two units earn the same number of points in 
categories (1)-(3), the first tie-breaker goes to the unit with the higher 
innovation grade, since creative solutions in our approach to energy usage 
will be critical to getting the most from a new Navy-wide energy culture.
        (6) Eligibility.  All operational expeditionary units.
        (7) Award submissions will be routed through Commander, Navy 
Expeditionary Combat Command (NECC).  Contact NECC reps for award submission 
template. NECC will recommend award winners to OPNAV N45 NLT 1 June 2015 for 
approval and announcement by SECNAV.  The awards ceremony is tentatively 
scheduled for October 2015.  Details and location to be provided SEPCOR.

5.  Released by VADM P. H. Cullom, OPNAV N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
