UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 201922Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 126/15

SUBJ/73RD ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE OF MIDWAY//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00//

RMKS/1.  On 4 June 1942, just six months after the attack on Pearl Harbor, 
the Japanese Navy steamed towards Midway Atoll with the intent of capturing 
the base so as to lure and destroy the remnants of the U.S. Pacific Fleet.  
Unbeknownst to the Japanese, their naval code had been broken and the U.S. 
was prepared for the attack.  On 3 June a U.S. Navy patrol plane pilot 
spotted the Japanese warships, and U.S. forces were deployed to counter the 
thrust.  The ensuing Battle of Midway, (4-6 June), would spell the beginning 
of the end for Japanese naval dominance. By the battle?s conclusion the 
Japanese had lost four carriers and hundreds of trained aviators.  This turn 
of events enabled the U.S. to swing into the offensive in the Solomons, and 
helped to set the U.S. and its allies on the path to ultimate victory in the 
Pacific.

2.  The Battle of Midway's outcome can be attributed to the courage and 
fighting spirit of the Sailors, Marines and Soldiers who were there.  From 
attacks against Japanese carriers by torpedo squadrons from the USS Hornet 
(CV 8), USS Enterprise (CV 6), and USS Yorktown (CV 5), to the defense of the 
island from incoming enemy bombers and fighters, to the aviators who took the 
fight to the enemy at sea, all are examples of the courage and fighting 
spirit that deserve recognition and honor.

3.  Everyday I see our Sailors heroically engaging our adversaries, as well 
as assisting victims of natural disasters and displaying goodwill around the 
world.  I am proud to say that the courage displayed at Midway 73 years ago 
is alive today.

4.  Next month Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), 
Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet (COMPACFLT), Commander, Naval Installations 
Command (CNIC), and many others will execute Midway commemorative events 
around our Navy. Significant events include an "11-Star" commemoration aboard 
the USS MIDWAY Museum in San Diego, a COMPACFLT wreath laying ceremony and 
commemoration event, and within the National Capital Region, the Vice Chief 
of Naval Operations (VCNO) will host a ceremony on 4 June at the Navy 
Memorial.  Additionally, you can join the Midway conversation on social media 
using #Midway73 and learn more about the Battle of Midway at 
http://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic/commemorations-toolkits/battle-
of-midway.html.

5.  Part of our mission as naval professionals is to preserve and celebrate 
our rich naval history and heritage.  Understanding our past is the key to 
developing strategies to handle the challenges of the future, which is 
fundamental to building and operating the Navy our nation requires.

6.  Released by Captain J. R. Wyatt, Director, Navy Staff (Acting).

BT
#8089
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
