UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 211340Z JAN 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 015/16 (Corrected Copy)

SUBJ/INSIDER THREAT TO CYBER SECURITY RANDOM COUNTERINTELLIGENCE POLYGRAPH 
PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/TITLE 10, SEC 1564A//
REF/B/DOC/DODD 5210.48/APR15//
REF/C/DOC/DODI 5210.91/OCT13//
REF/D/DOC/SECNAV M-5239.1/NOV05//
REF/E/DOC/NATIONAL INSIDER THREAT POLICY/NOV12//
REF/F/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/132027ZDEC13//
NARR/Reference (a) is U.S. code, armed forces, general military law, and 
counterintelligence polygraph program.  Reference (b) is the Department of 
Defense directive on the Department of Defense polygraph program.  Reference 
(c) is the Department of Defense instruction on polygraph and credibility 
assessment procedures.  Reference (d) is the Secretary of the Navy, 
Department of the Navy information assurance program manual.  Reference (e) 
is the national insider threat policy.  Reference (f) is NAVADMIN 319/13 
regarding insider threat to cyber security.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Navy-specific Random Counterintelligence 
Polygraph Program for privileged users and higher-risk personnel.  This 
program is designed to mitigate and deter the potential insider threat to 
classified information, systems, and networks.  The Navy’s legal authority 
for this action is listed in references (a), (b) and (c).

2.  Definitions.  Reference (d) defines privileged users as individuals who 
have access to system control, monitoring, or administration functions (e.g., 
system administrator, information assurance officer, system programmers, 
etc.).  Reference (e) defines insider threat as a person who will use her/his 
authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do harm to the security of 
the United States (U.S.).  This threat can include damage to the U.S. through 
espionage, terrorism, unauthorized disclosure of national security 
information, or through the loss or degradation of departmental resources or 
capabilities.

3.  Applicability.  In accordance with references (a) and (c), the following 
privileged users are subject to the Navys Random Counterintelligence 
Polygraph Program:
    a.  Those whose duties involve access to Top Secret information.
    b.  Those whose duties involve a Special Access Program under Executive 
Order 12958, as amended.
    c.  Those whose duties involve the creation, use, or handling of 
classified information related to sensitive intelligence or operational 
activities.

4.  Guidance.  Recent high-profile unauthorized disclosures of classified 
information involving U.S. service members, civilians, and contractors 
highlights the need to implement this Random Counterintelligence Polygraph 
Program.  The Random Counterintelligence Polygraph Program for privileged 
users is an additional tool to mitigate and deter the insider threat posed by 
higher-risk individuals who have elevated access and privileges to classified 
information, networks, and systems.  Insider threats directly imperil our 
warfighting effectiveness and degrade our readiness.  This is an all-hands 
effort.  Commanders are to ensure compliance with the Navy’s Random 
Counterintelligence Polygraph Program for privileged users.  The Deputy Chief 
of Naval Operations for Information Dominance (OPNAV N2/N6) will publish 
additional guidance regarding the implementation and execution of this 
program.
    a.  The Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Information Dominance (OPNAV 
N2/N6) will manage, oversee and coordinate the activities of the Random 
Counterintelligence Polygraph Program to include selection, notification, 
scheduling, and reporting of results to the appropriate authority.
    b.  OPNAV N2/N6 will select privileged users from the Total Workforce 
Management System (TWMS) Information Assurance Workforce Module.  TWMS is the 
system of record for documenting privileged users.  OPNAV N2/N6 will select 
higher-risk individuals in coordination and collaboration with Navy commands 
based on a risk management approach.
    c.  Privileged users and higher-risk individuals will be entered into a 
software program that will generate a monthly list of randomly selected 
individuals for counterintelligence polygraph examinations.
    d.  OPNAV N2/N6 will provide the randomly generated list of individuals 
to the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) Office of Polygraph 
Services.
    e.  NCIS will contact each privileged users or higher-risk individuals 
Special Security Officer (SSO) or Command Security Manager (CSM) to inform 
them of the polygraph requirement and coordinate scheduling.  NCIS will 
conduct counterintelligence polygraph examinations in accordance with 
reference (c).
    f.  Upon completion of counterintelligence polygraph examinations, NCIS 
will note the results in appropriate security and investigative databases.
    g.  Polygraph examination results indicative of counterintelligence 
threats or criminal conduct will be resolved in accordance with NCIS 
counterintelligence and law enforcement policy and procedures.
    h.  OPNAV N2/N6 will notify commands of all counterintelligence polygraph 
examination results indicative of behavior that causes doubt regarding a 
privileged users loyalty, judgment, honesty or reliability as it relates to 
maintaining eligibility to access classified systems or data.

5.  Reference (f) outlined several actions designed to reduce threats to 
classified or sensitive information from insiders.  Effectively implementing 
the Random Counterintelligence Polygraph Program will reduce the risk from 
insider threats.

6.  The Director, Navy Staff serves as the overall OPNAV lead for Navy 
Insider Threat.  OPNAV N2/N6 continues to lead a focused effort to ensure the 
security of our classified and sensitive information, networks, and systems.  
The Insider Threat to Cyber Security (ITCS/OPNAV N2/N6IP2) office is charged 
with coordinating the Navy’s Random Counterintelligence Polygraph Program for 
privileged users.  ITCS will work closely with the Judge Advocate General of 
the Navy to ensure the program complies with applicable statutes, 
regulations, and directives.  The Naval Criminal Investigative Service will 
conduct the Random Counterintelligence Polygraph Examinations in accordance 
with reference (b).

7.  For more information on the Navy’s Random Counterintelligence Polygraph 
Program for privileged users, please contact Mrs. Jennifer Floyd, OPNAV 
N2/N6, (703) 604-5799; or Mr. Robert Winston, OPNAV N2/N6, (703) 604-5735.
DSN:  664.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Ted N. Branch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Dominance, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
