UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 161513Z AUG 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 199/18

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N09/AUG//

SUBJ/RECREATIONAL OFF-DUTY RISK MANAGEMENT//

RMKS/1. Teammates, we have lost seven Shipmates so far this fiscal year to 
preventable off-duty mishaps. We all have a responsibility to each other that 
goes beyond the end of the duty day. Risk management training is a must with 
the right tools applied routinely in order for Sailors to be successful in 
their off-duty pursuits.

2. Four of seven recreational fatalities this year involved water activities 
such as spearfishing, diving, cliff jumping, and swimming. Two fatalities 
were Sailors hiking alone. These fatalities occurred while participating in 
common recreational activities and they were all preventable. The loss of 
these Sailors affects the Navy, our mission, and the lives of Shipmates, 
friends, and especially families left behind.

3. There are many resources available to support recreational off-duty risk 
management. These include information on the Naval Safety Center website, 
Morale, Welfare and Recreation, and local/regional hazard briefs that are 
tailored to specific information and known hazards for each region. 
Additionally, our Sailors must also have the time critical risk management 
skills to prevent injury while enjoying off-duty activities. This can be 
taught and learned by reading and following warning signs (e.g., rip 
currents, high surf, hazardous cliff, etc.). This can be prevented by not 
conducting high-risk activities alone, and by assessing our own skill and 
conditioning levels.

4. This is not an annual summer check-in-the-block, but rather a call to 
instill a culture of continuous risk management by all our warfighters, both 
on and off-duty. Communicate early and often at the deckplate level by an 
involved Command and Chief Petty Officer Mess. We can’t afford to lose any 
Sailors to preventable off-duty mishaps.

5. Released by ADM W. F. Moran, Vice Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

UNCLASSIFIED//
