RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 0731332-UUUU—RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 141332Z MAR 14
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01306//

NAVADMIN 058/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR// 

SUBJ/INCREASED ENLISTED PERSONNEL DISTRIBUTION AUTHORITY//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/261930ZJUL12//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/22APR10//
REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/27APR07//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/5NOV10//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/8JAN08//
REF/F/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/20DEC13//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 230/12, CPO EARLY RETURN TO SEA.  
REF B IS MILPERSMAN 1306-126, FIRST-TERM PERSONNEL ASSIGNMENT POLICY.  REF C 
IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-104, PROJECTED ROTATION DATE (PRD).  REF D IS 
MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-101, ENLISTED ASSIGNMENT SYSTEM.  REF E IS MILPERSMAN 
1306-106, TIME ON STATION (TOS) AND RETAINABILITY/OBLIGATED SERVICE 
(OBLISERV).  REF F IS MILPERSMAN 1306-957, NUCLEAR PROPULSION TRAINING 
ACTIVITIES.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels ref (a) in it's entirety and announces 
effective immediately, two distribution policy changes:  
    a.  Detailers may write orders directing the detachment or transfer of 
Sailors up to six months prior to their current projected rotation date 
(PRD), or as late as six months after their PRD, in order to fill anticipated 
Fleet vacancies on-time, with a fully trained and qualified relief.
    b.  A Sailor early return to sea (ERS) policy, which authorizes early 
curtailment of shore duty for Sailors in pay grades E4-E9, less first-term 
personnel who have reached the 24 month completion mark of their present 
normal shore tour, in order to fill valid requirements in undermanned ratings 
or operational requirements at sea.  First-Term personnel assignment policy 
is spelled-out in ref (b).

2.  From FY-12 and continuing through FY-14, there has been a concerted 
effort to improve enlisted Fleet manning and reduce gaps at sea.  While the 
Voluntary Sea Duty Program (VSDP) increased use of Sea Duty Incentive Pay 
(SDIP) and the Chief Petty Officer ERS policy have made solid progress in 
improving Fleet manning, there are times when Fleet vacancies and their 
associated training requirements do not align well with the availability 
dates based upon the PRD of Sailors in their permanent change of station 
(PCS) order negotiation window.  In addition, the demand to fill critical 
skills requirements at sea may prompt the early PCS of personnel possessing 
the prerequisite skill at the 24-month completion mark of their present shore 
tour.  Therefore, this NAVADMIN is provided to inform Sailors of recent 
changes to refs (c) and (d), which gives Navy Personnel Command increased 
PRD window authority and the ability to involuntarily curtail shore duty in 
order to further reduce gaps in Fleet manning.

3.  For the purposes of this increased detailing authority, PRDs will not be 
adjusted and the current Career Management System-Interactive Detailing 
(CMS/ID) application and detailing policies will remain unchanged.  Sailors 
will still enter their CMS/ID order negotiation window nine months prior to 
their PRD.  However, when they are selected for their next assignment, their 
orders may direct their transfer earlier or later than the previous -3/+4 PRD 
window allowed.  Therefore, it is important for Sailors to understand that 
their actual transfer date will be determined by the commencement of training 
required for the prospective job and the date of the anticipated Fleet 
vacancy they are being ordered to fill.  

4.  Enlisted detailers will fill as many high priority E4-E9 sea duty 
requirements as possible by fully utilizing the authorized transfer window of 
-6/+6.  Involuntary curtailment of shore duty at 24-months will only be used 
when there are limited Sailors available in the PRD window and there are no 
excess personnel on sea duty within the geographic area that can be 
reassigned.  
    a.  Only Sailors who have completed at least 24-months of shore duty at 
the time of transfer will be considered for ERS and then only to meet the 
most critical operational requirements.
    b.  ERS candidates will be selected based on one or more of the following 
factors:
        (1) Length of time on shore,
        (2) Current or Frocked Paygrade,  
        (3) Fleet experience, 
        (4) Navy Enlisted Classification Codes (NEC) held, 
        (5) Type of previous sea duty, and
        (6) Remaining obligated service.
    c.  Impact on the Sailors Shore Duty Command's manning and type billet 
being filled will be evaluated and balanced against at-sea priorities.
    d. In addition to filling their current pay grade, ERS candidates may be 
selected to fill vacant requirements within their respective pay band:  
Supervisor, Journeyman and Apprentice (SJA) (Supervisor E7-E9; Journeyman 
E5-E6 and Apprentice E1-E4, as directed by the Manning Control Authority 
(MCA)):
       (1) CPO Candidates:  E8 and E9 pay grades may be chosen to fill vacant 
E7 and E8 requirements, and E7 pay grade may be chosen to fill vacant E8 
requirements.  
       (2) Petty Officer Candidates:  May be chosen to fill vacant 
requirements within their pay band.  Any exceptions will be in accordance 
with MCA guidelines.
    e.  After CMS/ID is set each month, the remaining MCA priority 
requirements that could not be loaded or advertised, due to insufficient 
rollers or excess personnel on sea duty in the geographic area, will 
constitute the ERS requirements list for that month.  Based on this 
requirements list, detailers will generate an ERS candidate list, from the 
criteria listed in para 4.b.  Detailers will notify candidates that they are 
being considered for an ERS requirement and will annotate this notification 
in the Sailors' Enlisted Assignment Information System (EAIS) file.  
Concurrently with the detailer notification to the Sailors, Placement 
Coordinators will notify the current command of the Sailors' possible early 
transfer.  Both the Sailor and their current command can submit an adverse 
impact statement created by the Sailors' early transfer within 30 days of 
their notification.  If extenuating circumstances or mission requirements 
preclude a Sailor from receiving PCS orders in support of ERS, those 
circumstances must be submitted to PERS-40 in writing, with a command 
endorsement.  PERS-4 is the flag review authority for such cases.  Following 
the 30-day notification period and after consideration of any impact 
statement submissions, detailers will then select Sailors for the ERS 
requirements from the candidate list.  Once Sailors are selected for ERS, 
detailers will notify those Sailors accordingly and annotate actions taken 
within the Sailors' EAIS file.
    f.  The new PRD, for those Sailors issued PCS orders in support of ERS, 
will reflect the Prescribed Sea Tour (PST) based on their Sea Shore Flow 
(SSF).   
    g.  Sailors who have sufficient retainability remaining on their 
enlistment contract to execute a return to sea duty PCS, as outlined in ref 
(e), and who refuse to obligate to their PST will have orders written through 
the expiration of their current enlistment contract.  Sailors who 
subsequently reenlist or extend will remain at sea to complete their PST or 
until end of obligated service, whichever is shorter.
    h.  Sailors who fail to OBLISERV and have less than 12 months of 
retainability remaining on their enlistment contract to execute order, will 
remain in place until their current enlistment contract has expired. 
    i.  Requests to transfer to the Fleet Reserve submitted subsequent to 
selection for ERS (discussed in paragraph 4.e) by Sailors who have more than 
one year of contract time remaining may be disapproved.
    j.  High Year Tenure (HYT) requests for those Sailors executing orders in 
support of ERS duty will receive favorable consideration.  
    k.  Nuclear-trained Sailors (NEC 33XX) will continue to be detailed per 
Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program priorities.  Nuclear-trained Sailors who 
volunteer for instructor duty at nuclear training commands or on submarine 
tenders will be excluded from the ERS policy.  ERS for nuclear-trained 
Sailors in other billets will be handled on a case basis via request from 
PERS-403 to OPNAV N133.

5.  Additionally, the section of ref (c) containing special procedures for 
surface nuclear-trained members has been removed.  All nuclear enlisted 
Sailors will have their initial sea tour PRDs set in accordance with PST 
lengths.  This change removes unnecessary administration from the ships, 
allows for more accurate personnel inventory reports and provides our Sailors 
with a more accurate PRD upon receipt of orders to their initial conventional 
nuclear sea tour.  This section had set the PRD for surface nuclear-trained 
Sailors in their initial sea tour to 36 months to support detailing Sailors 
to the training commands.  The requirements in ref (f) provide the necessary 
guidance to apply for Instructor Duty.

6.  To encourage personnel to voluntarily return to sea duty, the following 
incentives are currently offered:
    a.  VSDP:  Geographic choice or stability and C-WAY deferment 
    b.  HYT waiver consideration; and 
    c.  SDIP for eligible ratings.

7.  These changes to our distribution policy are being driven by the need to 
ensure on-time arrival of the right Sailor, with the right training to Fleet 
commands.  Decisions affecting the careers and lives of our Sailors and their 
families are not taken lightly.  Our aim is to cause the least amount of 
disruption to the careers and lives of our Sailors and their families, while 
sustaining Fleet manning and ensuring our Navy remains mission ready across 
the broad spectrum of maritime operations.

8.  Sailors may contact the Navy Personnel Command Call Center in Millington 
at 1(866) U-Ask-NPC, 1(866) 827-5672 or via e-mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil 
with questions.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10. Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0000
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

