UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 021737Z MAY 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 109/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FY-18 MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes NAVADMIN 079/17, and announces policy and 
guidance updates for the FY-18 Meritorious Advancement Program (MAP) season.

2.  MAP Intent.  As a part of Sailor 2025 and our continuing efforts to 
modernize personnel systems and processes, this NAVADMIN provides policy and 
guidance for the FY-18 MAP Season for Active Component
(AC) and Full-Time Support (FTS) Sailors.  Policy, guidance, and quota 
distribution for Selected Reserve will be outlined in a future all Navy 
Reserve message.  We continue to refine and improve the program to further 
empower command triads to recognize their most highly talented Sailors 
through immediate advancement.  Changes this season include:
    a.  Increasing the total number of MAP quotas.  The added flexibility and 
increased importance of MAP will account for approximately 15 percent of all 
E4-E6 advancements this year.
    b.  Allowing multiple meritorious certification letter (MCL) submissions 
to provide maximum flexibility for commands.  Commands have the ability to 
provide multiple MCLs this season in order to promptly advance their Sailors.  
This ensures commands do not hold up MAP advancements to finalize the selects 
from their command.
    c.  Allowing commands to use E4 quotas to advance any E1-E3 Sailors to 
the next higher paygrade on a one-for-one basis.  This will allow commands to 
recognize their best performers and advance Sailors to all paygrades E6 and 
below.
    d.  Reducing the 2-year time-in-rate (TIR) to 1-year TIR for E6 MAP 
candidates with the additional ability for commands to select Sailors with 
no-TIR through Budget Submitting Officer (BSO)/designated Echelon 2 
endorsement.  Nuclear-trained Sailors (EMN, ETN, and MMN) must complete at 
least 2 years as an E5 before being eligible for advancement to E6.  Commands 
that select Sailors with no-TIR will require a BSO/Echelon 2 endorsed letter 
to accompany the MCL.

3.  Fleet Feedback.  These modifications are the result of the close 
partnership with Navy leadership and the MAP strategic working group, which 
is comprised of senior enlisted leaders across the Fleet.  The strategic 
working group assessed lessons learned from
FY-17 and Sailor feedback to ensure command leadership triads are provided 
even greater opportunity and flexibility.  As outlined in subparagraph 6c, 
commanding officers (CO) are highly encouraged to meritoriously advance 
highly deserving frocked Sailors to make their advancement effective 
immediately.

4.  Community Health.  Navy must balance rating community health and provide 
Sailors with advancement opportunity across all three advancement cycles  two 
Navy Wide Advancement Exams (NWAE) and one MAP Season.
    a.  To ensure communities remain healthy, commands that wish to nominate 
a Sailor in a controlled rate must submit their request via their chain of 
command to their BSO/Echelon 2 commands for consideration.  BSO/Echelon 2 
commands remain the approval authority for controlled rate requests.  
Requests not approved by the BSO/Echelon 2 command will be returned to the 
originating command, which can use the MAP quota to advance an alternate 
Sailor in a non- controlled rate.
    b.  The following rates, by component, are controlled for the
FY-18 MAP Season (i.e., BSO/Echelon 2 approval required to be MAP advanced 
into the rates listed):
        (1) AC:  AWS1, BM1, CSS1, ABF2, ABH2, AD2, AE2, AM2, AME2, AO2, AT2, 
CSS2, CTM2, GSE2, MN2, PS2, SH2.
        (2) FTS:  AME1, AS1, AT1, PR1, AME2, AS2, AT2.
    c.  A request for a controlled rate quota must be submitted from the CO, 
via the chain of command, to their BSO/Echelon 2 command for approval.  
Adjudication and notification of the controlled rate requests by the 
BSO/Echelon 2 should be made no later than 30 days upon receipt.  A copy of 
the BSO/Echelon 2 authorization letter must be submitted as an enclosure with 
the MCL as directed in paragraph

7.  Each BSO/Echelon 2 command is the approval authority for exceptions to 
policy (ETP) for their subordinate commands.

5.  MAP Quotas.  MAP quotas are allocated to both individual commands and 
BSO/Echelon 2 commands.
    a.  Command MAP quotas are calculated based on the eligible E3-
E5 Billets Authorized (BA) at the command level, to include any subordinate 
UICs.  The specific number of quotas, if any, will depend on the size of the 
E3-E5 BA at the command level, to include BA at both the parent and 
subordinate unit identification codes (UIC).  At a minimum, a command with at 
least 15 E3-E5 BA will receive a MAP quota at the paygrade with the most 
billets (e.g., a command with 5 E3 billets and 10 E4 billets will receive 1 
E5 quota).  All Sailors assigned to subordinate UICs are eligible for MAP 
quotas assigned to the parent command.
    b.  The BA associated with commands that do not generate MAP quotas are 
aggregated and then allocated to the BSO/Echelon 2 for distribution to any 
commands within that BSO/Echelon 2, including the headquarters command.
    c.  All commands are authorized to request quotas from their BSO/Echelon 
2, via their immediate superior in command (ISIC) and type commander (TYCOM), 
whether or not command quotas are authorized.  BSO/Echelon 2s and TYCOMs may 
issue specific guidance on due dates or how subordinate commands must request 
a quota.  Each BSO/Echelon 2 command is the approval authority for ETPs for 
their subordinate commands.
    d.  The list of MAP quotas by UIC can be found on the Navy Personnel 
Command (NPC) website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/
advancement/pages/map.aspx.

6.  MAP Eligibility.  MAP is open to all Sailors who meet advancement 
eligibility requirements.
    a.  MAP open season will take place from 1 July 2018 to
31 August 2018.  MAP redistribution season will take place from 1 September 
2018 to 30 September 2018.
    b.  The effective date of advancement is based on the date of the COs MCL 
but no earlier than 1 July 2018.  The date of rate for
E4-E6 MAP candidates will be 1 July 2018 while the date of rate for
E2 and E3 MAP candidates will be the date of the MCL.  Commands are 
encouraged to begin their MAP selection process and submit their MCL as early 
as possible to ensure Sailors are advanced and paid expeditiously.
    c.  Sailors can only be meritoriously advanced one paygrade.
Sailors can only be meritoriously advanced once during FY18 MAP Season.  
Sailors in a frocked status are not eligible for advancement to the next 
higher paygrade until effectively advanced (i.e., a frocked E5 cannot be 
meritoriously advanced to E6).
However, COs are authorized and encouraged to MAP frocked Sailors who were 
selected for advancement from the Spring 2018, Cycle 239, NWAE provided they 
have not reached their effective pay date (i.e., a frocked E5 can be 
meritoriously advanced to E5.  Refer to the profile sheet of the member for 
effective pay date).  Sailors must have the following TIR in paygrades E1E5 
for MAP advancement
eligibility:
        (1) E6  1 July 2017 (1 July 2016 for nuclear-trained Sailors).
        (2) E5 and below  No TIR requirement.
    d.  COs may select an E6 MAP candidate with no-TIR through BSO/Ech 2 
endorsement.  The command must submit the BSO/Echelon 2 endorsement with the 
MCL.
    e.  Sailors must be attached to the MAP authorized command during the FY-
18 MAP season.  Projected rotation date change requests are recommended if a 
Sailor will transfer prior to the start of the MAP Season.
    f.  Professional Apprenticeship Career Track (PACT) Sailors remain 
eligible for MAP advancement, provided the Sailor has an approved quota for 
rating designation (i.e., approved quota in Career Waypoints (C-WAY)) via the 
NWAE or Rating Entry Designation.
MAP advancement is not authorized for PACT Sailors with designation approval 
for A-School required ratings.
    g.  Director, Military Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV (N13)) is the 
determining authority for MAP eligibility ETPs.  Any MAP eligibility ETP 
request will be submitted to OPNAV (N13) via the chain of command and copy to 
Enlisted Career Administration/Enlisted Boards (PERS-8031).  ETPs for nuclear 
trained Sailors will be routed to OPNAV (N13) via OPNAV (N133).

7.  MAP Validation.  Commands will forward their MCL (copy to ISIC and TYCOM) 
to PERS-8031 listing their Sailors selected for meritorious advancement.  
MCLs must include all required information including the subordinate UIC the 
selected Sailor is attached, if applicable.
    a.  PERS-8031 will review the record(s) of the selected
Sailor(s) and validate the MCL.  If there are no discrepancies PERS-
8031 will inform the command that their MAP selects are valid.
Commands are not authorized to notify Sailor(s) of MAP selection until 
receipt of the PERS-8031 validation of the MCL.
    b.  If discrepancies are discovered, PERS-8031 will invalidate the MCL 
and notify the command (copy to ISIC and TYCOM) of the
reason(s) for invalidation.  Commands may correct discrepancies and resubmit 
or identify new MAP candidates.
    c.  If the social security number of the member is included on the MCL, 
then an encrypted e-mail is required for submission of the MCL (signed and 
scanned attachment) to PERS-8031 at advancements- active(at)navy.mil.  The e-
mail subject line must include the MAP UIC.  Do not mail in the MCL if it has 
already been e-mailed.  An e- mail response validating the MCL will be 
received within 5 business days of submission.
    d.  If operational commitments preclude a command from submitting their 
MCL prior to the deadline, the command must forward the MCL with 
justification to their ISIC/chain of command for endorsement and further 
processing through PERS-8031.

8.  Quota Redistribution.  The BSO/Echelon 2 command has final authority to 
determine which command(s) will receive unused quotas during redistribution 
season.  MAP redistribution season will take place from 130 September 2018.  
If awarded a redistributed quota from the BSO/Echelon 2 Commander, an 
additional MCL must be submitted to PERS-8031 as directed in paragraph 7.

9.  Quota Substitution.  Commands are not authorized to substitute paygrades 
for E5 and E6 MAP quotas (e.g., utilize an E6 MAP quota to advance an E3 
Sailor to E4 or vice versa).  MAP quotas are formulated based upon specific 
BA, thus substitution of quotas may cause over-execution of advancements at 
certain paygrades.  The only allowance of quota substitution is that E4 MAP 
quotas may be used to advance Sailors to E2 and E3 paygrades.  Commands 
should note that use of E4 quotas for paygrade E2 and E3 advancements will 
not result in a higher number of available quotas (i.e., one E4 quota may be 
used for one E2 advancement or one E3 advancement).

10.  Subordinate UICs.  COs are authorized to utilize MAP quotas at their 
subordinate UICs.  MAP Quotas are distributed by command UIC and must be used 
to advance a Sailor permanently assigned, or temporary additional duty for 
greater than 30 days, to that UIC or subordinate UIC.

11.  Navy Recruiting Districts (NRD) are authorized to use one AC/FTS MAP 
quota per NRD for reserve Sailors filling Canvasser Recruiter billets.

12.  MAP Website.  Example forms and FAQs can be downloaded via the NPC 
website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/enlistedcareeradmin/advancement/pages/map.aspx
The list of POCs for each BSO/Echelon 2 command and list of parent and 
subordinate UICs can also be found on this website.

13.  Point of contact.  Navy Personnel Command (PERS-8031) at (901) 874-
4457/DNS 882, or via e-mail at advancements-active(at)navy.mil

14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

15.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
