UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 101523Z JAN 17

FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 9/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CHINFO WASHINGTON DC/DEC/

SUBJ/2017 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/01NOV16/-/NOTAL//

REF/B/DOC/OSD/17NOV15/-/NOTAL//

REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/21DEC12//

REF/D/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//

REF/E/DOC/CNO/JAN16//

NARR/ REF A is SECDEF memo regarding Force of the Future
initiatives.  REF B is DOD Public Affairs Community Outreach
Guidance for Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017.  REF C is OPNAVINST
5726.8A, Outreach: Americas Navy. Ref D is NAVADMIN 148/16
announcing the American Connections Media Outreach Program.  REF E
is CNO Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority.//
POC/Rob Newell/Civ/CHINFO/LOC:  WASHINGTON, DC/TEL:  (703) 614-1879
/EMAIL:  ROBERT.D.NEWELL1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

1.  In support of refs (a) thru (e), this NAVADMIN issues
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community
Outreach Program for 2017.

2.  Background.  In ref (a), the SECDEF encouraged the Department of
Defense to explain to the American Public who we are, what we stand
for and what we do.  Accordingly, ref (b) authorizes the services to
continue their community outreach programs in a sustainable,
fiscally responsible manner, not only by showcasing our militarys
capabilities and readiness to defend the nation, but also by sharing
the unparalleled opportunity and experience we offer to Americans
who can meet our high standards and wish to serve.  ISO these
efforts, the Navy will use its full menu of community outreach
programs in 2017 to increase Americans awareness, knowledge and
favorability of the Navy, with a specific focus on engaging those
parts of the country outside of fleet concentration areas.  Our
ultimate goal - Inspire Americans to support or serve in their Navy.

3.  Per ref (b), the following outreach programs are authorized for
Calendar Year 2017 (CY17):
    a.  Eight Fleet Weeks:  Port Everglades, Fla.; New York City,
    N.Y.; Hampton Roads, Va.;  Boston, Ma. (Sail Boston 2017); Portland,
Ore.;  Los Angeles, Calif.;  San Francisco, Calif.; Seattle, Wash.
Tasking and responsibilities for these events will be provided SEPCOR
by cognizant operational and regional commanders.
    b.  Fifteen Navy Weeks:  Mobile, Ala., Feb. 23-March 2;  Austin,
Texas, March 19-26; Gulfport/Biloxi, Miss. April 1-8;  Memphis,
Tenn., May 8-14;  Spokane, Wash., May 15-21;  Pittsburgh, Pa., June
19-25;  Omaha, Neb., June 26-July 2;  Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn.,
July 17-23; Green Bay-Fox Cities, Wis., July 28-Aug. 6;
Indianapolis, Ind., Aug. 7-13;  Portland, Maine, Aug. 21
-27;  Detroit, Mich., Aug. 28-Sept. 4;  Salt Lake City, Utah, Sept.
11-17;  Little Rock, Ark., Oct. 16-22;  Fort Worth, Texas, Oct. 23
-29.  Per ref (c), the Navy Week program is a community outreach
requirement, led by the Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO),
and is a program uniquely positioned to increase understanding of
the Navy and its mission in markets across America which do not have
a Navy presence.  As such, the following commands and activities
will support the 2017 Navy Week campaign to the maximum extent
operational schedules will allow:
        (1) Naval Special Warfare Command and Commander, Navy
        Recruiting
Command (CNRC) will make the Navy Parachute Team available depending
on venues and opportunities.
        (2) Navy Expeditionary Combat Command will make expeditionary
units (divers, EOD teams, Riverine, Seabees and Combat Camera) and their
equipment available.
        (3) TYCOMs will support with Sailors assigned to ships,
squadrons and submarines with namesake city or state ties.  For cities
where more than one namesake unit has a relationship, NAVCO will
coordinate with TYCOMs to determine the most feasible assignment.
        (4) AIRFOR will support with aircraft and aircrew
participation, when possible, leveraging existing requirements of the
Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps Naval Aviation Sponsorship Program.
        (5) Reserve Force will support with Naval Operational Support
Center Sailors and other resources as coordinated with NAVCO Navy
Week planning leads.
        (6) Bureau of Medicine and Surgery will support with Navy
        Medical professionals, equipment and displays as appropriate.
        (7) Office of Naval Research will participate with personnel
and assets participating in Science, Technology, Engineering and
Mathematics (STEM) events.
        (8) The Navy Music Program will support with regional bands
and premiere bands when appropriate.
        (9) Naval Education and Training Command and Naval Service
Training Command will support with participation from NROTC units.
        (10) USS CONSTITUTION will support with Sailors, equipment
and displays.
        (11) U.S. Fleet Forces Command and the Office of the Chief of
Naval Operations (OPNAV) N45 will support with environmental personnel and
displays.
        (12) CNRC will support with Navy Recruiting District (NRD)
/Navy Recruiting Station Sailors and recruiting properties, simulators
and other equipment as appropriate.
        (13) Navy commands and units within a reasonable distance of
Navy Week cities will support with home town Sailors, other personnel and
equipment, as coordinated with Navy Week planning teams.
        (14) Blue Angels performances will provide the foundational
event for Navy Weeks in Memphis, Tenn.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Omaha, Neb.;
Green Bay-Fox Cities, Wis.; Portland, Maine; Detroit, Mich.; and
Fort Worth, Texas.
        (15) Naval History and Heritage Command will support with
speakers and displays.
        (16) Navy Ceremonial Guard will support with its drill team.
        (17) Department of the Navy Office of Small Business Programs
will provide detailed statistics for each market and will provide
representatives to attend and speak at multiple small business
events in conjunction with Navy Weeks as a part of our efforts to
provide the highest quality of support to small business owners and
entrepreneurs.
        (18) Additional units or activities with outreach capability
not listed above are encouraged and welcome to participate in the Navy
Week program and should contact NAVCO for further guidance.
    c.  The American Connections Media Outreach Program, announced
ref (d), will be a prominent component of the Navys 2017 community
outreach strategy.  The new program modernized and replaced the
legacy Fleet Hometown News (FHTN) program.  Managed by NAVCO, the
program was established to share the Navy story with media across
the country that serves markets which generally do not receive Navy
news and information.  It leverages Sailors local connections to
communities across America -- hometown, location of high school or
college attended, family members hometown, etc. -- as well as the
relationships that exist between Navy units and their namesake
cities and states, to ensure Americans throughout the country better
understand their Navy, its mission and its contribution to national
security.  An additional but no less significant benefit of the
program is the positive impact on the morale of participating
Sailors and namesake units.  In 2017, the program will include the
following elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys small production
teams to commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos
on assigned Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those
Sailors have local connections.  All content is also posted to
NAVCOs media outreach blog, allowing Sailors to share their stories
via their social media networks.  NAVCO will conduct 24 Media
Production Visits in 2017 in support of key Navy communication
priorities and programs.  Priorities (proposed locations) include:
        a.  Asia-Pacific Rebalance (Guam, Sasebo, Singapore,
Yokosuka)
        b.  Aviation Modernization, F-35, EA-18G, E-2D programs
(Norfolk, Whidbey)
        c.  Ballistic Missile Defense (Romania, Rota)
        d.  Cyber Warfare (Corry Station, Fort Meade)
        e.  Investment in People, Naval Aviation Training (Corpus,
Kingsville, Pensacola)
        f.  Maritime Security (Bahrain)
        g.  Navy Medicine (Norfolk, San Diego)
        h.  Ohio Replacement and Nuclear Deterrence, SSBN, E-6B
programs (Bangor, Kings Bay, Oklahoma City)
        i.  Seabees 75th (Gulfport, Port Hueneme)
        j.  Surface Modernization, LCS, DDG, LPD, LHA programs
(Norfolk, San Diego)
        k.  Undersea Warfare, SSN, P-8, MH-60R programs (Jacksonville
, Mayport)
       (2) World War II 75th Anniversary
       (3) Media advisory service.  Preserving a popular capability
from the FHTN program, NAVCO notifies local media when Sailors are
promoted, receive an award, earn a warfare qualification, complete a
deployment or achieve other recognition.  Sailors may submit
material for this service using a fillable form, available at
www.outreach.navy.mil.
       (4) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day,
commands throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos featuring
the professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments of Navy
commands.  NAVCO's content sharing service provides these stories
and photos to media where Sailors have local connections and to
media with ties to namesake units.
       (5) Radio shout-out service.  A toll-free telephone service (1
-855-OUR-NAVY or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to record a 15
-second greeting, which is shared with local radio stations where
Sailors have local connections.  Greetings can be submitted in
conjunction with a holiday or observance, such as Thanksgiving,
Veterans Day, etc.  Greetings can also be sent from Sailors, or
namesake units, to offer support to their home teams participating
in major sporting events.
    d.  Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval Aviation outreach is
particularly effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring
a primary warfighting platform to inland markets.  The following Naval
Aviation outreach activities are authorized in CY16:
        (1) A full 32-show schedule for the Blue Angels.
        (2) A full 30-show schedule for the Navy Parachute Team.
        (3) Six Navy-hosted air shows/open houses in El Centro,
        Calif.; Corpus Christi, Texas; Oceana, Va.; Pensacola, Fla.;
China Lake, Calif. and Gulfport, Miss.  These events are authorized to
 have aerial demonstrations by aviation assets that are organic to the
installation.
        (4) Forty-six TACAIRDEMO performances at Chief of Information
(CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not
performing.
        (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows
and other events.
        (6) 40 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by
CHINFO), equally divided between east and west coast aviation assets, at
CHINFO-authorized events.  Flyover support will only be provided to
those events that have the ability to showcase Naval Aviation to a
national or international audience.  Requests are submitted to NAVCO
using DD Form 2535, reviewed by the Aviation Outreach Working Group
(AOWG) consisting of representatives from CNAL, CNAP, NAVCO and
CHINFO, before being forward up the Chief of Information for final
approval.
        (7) Aviation outreach support which falls into the following
categories is not subject to limits specified in ref (b):
            a.  Military services retain operational authority over
support for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not
considered community outreach events.
            b. Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended
primarily for an internal audience are not considered outreach
events and may be conducted with TYCOM approval; this includes
United States Naval Academy events.
            c.  Aviation outreach support, to include flyovers,
at CHINFO -authorized events in the local area are permitted
when it is deemed by the local or regional commander to be
in the interest of maintaining good relations with key
community partners and organizations.
            d.  Continental United States port visits.  From an
outreach perspective, there is no more effective means to showcase
the Navy's capabilities and its talented Sailors than allowing Americans
to visit a ship or submarine.  As such, a maximum of 20 port visits for
outreach have been approved during 2017.  The following CONUS Port
Visits are currently scheduled:
            (1) East Coast - Mobile, Ala.;  Charleston, S.C.;  New
Orleans, La.;  Boston, Mass. (x2) in addition to Fleet Week Boston;
Bristol, R.I.;  New York, N.Y., in addition to Fleet Week NY;  Rockland,
Maine.
            (2) West Coast - Seattle, Wash., in addition to Seattle
Sea Fair;  San Francisco, Calif., (x2) in addition to Fleet Week
SF;  Los Angeles, Calif., (x2) in addition to Fleet Week LA;  Long
Beach, Calif.; Santa Barbara, Calif.;  Malibu, Calif.
            (3) Other port visits conducted primarily for training or
operational purposes are not subject to limits specified in ref (b).
            (4) Per ref (c), the following elements should be
incorporated into every port visit SOE:
                a.  Media day (pierside press availability and a
shipboard tour).
                b.  Very important person (VIP) reception.
                c.  VIP tours for local civic and community leaders.
                d.  The maximum amount of public visitation possible
to the extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
                e.  Two community relations projects, such as beach
clean-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with appropriate media 
coverage.
                f.  Executive Outreach.  Ref (b) approves dedicated
outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic and executive 
outreach.
The following is authorized:
                    (1) NAVCO administers the Navy's Executive Engagement 
Visit (EEV) program for Flag Officers and Senior Executive Service civilians 
for the purpose of conducting multi-day outreach engagements in U.S. cities.  
NAVCO will coordinate itineraries for participating Navy leaders, to include 
engagements with corporate executives, government officials, education 
leaders, civic groups, veterans organizations and media.  Proposed 2017 EEV 
cities are:  Phoenix, Ariz.; St. Louis, Mo.; Sioux Falls, S.D.; Des Moines, 
Iowa; Knoxville, Tenn.; San Antonio, Texas; Roanoke, Va.; Syracuse, N.Y.; 
Dayton, Ohio; Milwaukee, Wis.; Boise, Idaho; Albuquerque, N.M.;
Sacramento, Calif.; Houston, Texas; Baton Rouge, La.; Kansas City, Mo.; 
Dover, Del.; Missoula, Mont.; Charleston, S.C.; Philadelphia, Pa.; Buffalo, 
N.Y.; Lubbock, Texas;  Orlando, Fla.; Charlotte, N.C.; Tulsa, Okla.
                    (2) Other cities to which a Flag Officer or Senior 
Executive Service civilian has a significant tie may be considered in lieu of 
cities mentioned previously.
                    (3) Per ref (c), travel by Flag Officers, (SES) civilians 
and members of the command triad outside the local area to participate in 
community outreach and other representational events that demonstrably help 
achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and will be considered essential 
official business in the governments interest.
    g. Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most effective 
means to connect Americans with their Navy is through strong and enduring 
namesake unit relationships.
In addition to the requirements specified for the Navy Week program 
referenced in para 3.b.(3) above, ref (b) approves visits by crewmembers of 
ships and submarines with namesake ties to their namesake city or state.
    h. Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  Ref (b) approves 
the fall, spring and summer tours for the Navy's premier bands, the use of 
operational funding for regional band outreach travel and performances, 
participation in the International and Midwest Band and Orchestra Clinic, 
Navy Band public outreach concerts, large public concerts ICW Navy
Birthday celebrations.  Also approved are performances by the Navy Ceremonial 
Guard in parades outside of the National Capital Region and other 
miscellaneous outreach at events such as the Super Bowl, Warrior Games and 
similar events.
    i.  Navy Birthday and Historical Observances.  Funding has been approved 
under ref (b) for commands and activities to commemorate the Navy Birthday, 
Battle of Midway, events commemorating the 75th anniversary of major World 
War II events, centennial anniversary of WWI, the 50th anniversary of the 
Vietnam War, and other historical observances. Commands are encouraged to 
align activities and events with the following significant anniversary dates 
in 2017: 
        (1) Feb. 28, Battles of Java Sea/Sunda Strait (WWII)
        (2) March 1, Battle of the Atlantic (WWII)
        (3) March 5, Seabees birthday (WWII)
        (4) March 17, establishment of Yeoman (F) (WWII)
        (5) April 6, U.S. declares war on Germany (WWI)
        (6) April 7, African Americans accepted for General Service
and establishment of WAVES (WWII)
        (7) April 7, first combat against Germany (WWI)
        (8) April 8, Last stand at Bataan (WWII)
        (9) April 18, Doolittle Raid (WWII)
        (10) May 4, Division Eight, Destroyer Force, Atlantic Fleet
Arrives at Queenstown to start combat operations (WWI)
        (11) May 6-8, Battle of the Coral Sea (WWII)
        (12) May 24, first U.S. convoy left Hampton Roads, Va. to
cross the Atlantic (WWI)
        (13) June 3-6, Battle of Midway (WWII)
        (14) June 8, attack on USS Liberty (AGTR 5) (50th)
        (15) June 26, first Navy convoy of troopships arrives in
France (WWI)
        (16) July, Arctic Convoys (Loss of Convoy PQ-17) (WWII)
        (17) July 29, fire breaks out on USS Forrestal (CVA 59)
(Vietnam)
        (18) Aug. 7-9, Battle of Savo Island (WWII)
        (19) Nov. 8, Operation Torch (WWII)
        (20) Nov. 12-15, Naval Battle of Guadalcanal (WWII)
        (21) Dec. 7, Battleship Division Nine arrive in Scapa Flow
for service with the Royal Navys Grand Fleet (WWI)
More detailed information and products on these anniversaries can be
found at: https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic
/commemorations-toolkits.html
   j.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  The following is
authorized with respect to outreach in local areas:
       (1) Commanders are encouraged to engage in and support local
community outreach efforts with speakers, musical units, ceremonial
assets, and ground equipment static displays.
       (2) Per ref (b), local community engagements on and off
military installations that cost up to $5,000 per single event(excluding
normal pay and allowances) are encouraged to continue without an
exception  to policy for events not included in the approved FY17-18
Military Service or COCOM outreach plans.
        (3) The precise definition of a local area is determined by
the commander and is dependent on the geographic layout of an
installation; however, as a general guideline, a local area may be
considered to be within 150 miles of an installation or any travel
that can be completed to and from in a single business day.

4.  All modifications beyond the scope of ref (b) require approval by
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public
Affairs.  Requests for an exception to policy must be forwarded
through CHINFO.  For additional questions pertaining to this
NAVADMIN and the execution of the Navy's 2017 Community Outreach
Plan, please contact Mr. Rob Newell at 703-614-1879.

5.  Released by RDML Dawn Cutler, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
