UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 191749Z JAN 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 013/16

SUBJ/ENLISTED CYBER MASTER'S DEGREE OPPORTUNITY AT NAVAL POSTGRADUATE 
SCHOOL//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30JAN07//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.8A, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS (SRB) 
PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits enlisted member applications for enrollment 
in the 12-month Master of Science in Applied Cyber Operations program at 
Naval Postgraduate School (NPS).  This program is one of many efforts to 
increase the Navy's cyber capabilities while building a professional cyber 
workforce.

2.  Selectees will be assigned to Navy-funded education as full-time students 
under permanent change of station orders to Monterey, CA with either a 
September 2016 or March 2017 start.  As full-time students, Sailors will be 
required to carry a full academic load year-round.  Degree requirements 
should be completed in 12 months and will include a capstone project.  
Prospective applicants should contact their detailers immediately to discuss 
implications for their current assignments.  Failure to do so may result in 
the withdrawal of selection.

3.  This program is only available to active duty and full-time support 
members in the Information Systems Technician and Cryptologic Technician - 
Networks ratings who meet the following criteria:

    a.  Must already possess a Bachelor of Science degree in a relevant 
technical field including, but not limited to, computer science, electrical 
engineering, and information or engineering technology.  The degree must have 
been awarded by an institution of higher learning accredited by a regional 
accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.  To meet 
NPS academic requirements, performance in technical courses, including 
mathematics, must be exemplary.  The academic profile code (APC) for this 
program is 344 (minimum 2.20 GPA, Calculus for Business/Social Sciences with 
a grade of C or better, and one calculus-based physics course with a minimum 
grade of C).  Please refer to the NPS academic catalog for specific 
information on calculating the APC.
    b.  Must obtain a conditional letter of acceptance from NPS.  In order to 
obtain a conditional letter of acceptance from NPS, Sailors must complete the 
following steps no later than 14 March 2016:
        (1) Submit NPS applications online at
http://www.nps.edu/academics/admissions/applyonline/applynow.html.
Once registered, Sailors should select Applied Cyber Operations, curriculum 
number 336.
        (2) Request official academic transcripts from their post-secondary 
institutions.  Sailors must arrange for submission of official transcripts to 
the NPS admissions office from each institution attended for all 
undergraduate and graduate education, as well as all Sailor/Marine American 
Council on Education Registry Transcripts or Joint Services transcripts.  
Sailors who are not conditionally accepted will be notified by NPS via e-
mail.
    c.  Must be an E-6 or above eligible for a continental United States 
shore assignment during the requested NPS enrollment period.
    d.  Must be eligible to incur a five-year active-duty service obligation 
by re-enlistment or extension of enlistment prior to NPS enrollment.  
Selectees will be required to reenlist more than one year earlier if they are 
unable to satisfy the five-year obligated service requirement with an 
aggregate of 24 or fewer months of extensions.  An extension will become 
binding upon enrollment at NPS.  Per reference (a), payment of the selective 
re-enlistment bonus is not authorized for selectees who reenlist for the 
purpose of meeting the obligated service requirement.
    e.  Must be within physical fitness assessment (PFA) standards with no 
PFA failures within the last three years.
    f.  Must have no evaluation marks below 3.0 within the last five years.
    g.  Must hold or be eligible for a Top Secret (TS)/Sensitive 
Compartmented Information (SCI) clearance.  Applicants without a current 
TS/SCI clearance are still encouraged to apply, but should work with their 
special security office to initiate the clearance request.  Orders to NPS 
will not be issued until TS/SCI clearance is finalized.

4.  Upon receiving a conditional letter of acceptance from NPS, eligible 
Sailors should forward a written request via their commanding officer by 
encrypted e-mail to michael.saunders(at)navy.mil, using the format below no 
later than 17 April 2016:

    From:  (Rate, Full Name)
    To:    Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Information
           Dominance, N2/N6
    Via:   Commanding Officer
    Subj:  Application for Enlisted Cyber Master's Degree
           Opportunity at Naval Postgraduate School
    Ref:   (a) Cite this NAVADMIN
    Encl:  (1) Copies of all post-secondary academic transcripts
           (2) Certified copies of the last four performance
               evaluations
           (3) Command financial screening for assignment to a high
               cost of living area without barracks or dedicated
               housing for bachelors or geographic bachelors
           (4) Member's single page statement of preparedness and
               motivation to earn a master's degree, and future
               goals
           (5) NPS conditional letter of acceptance

    1.  I request selection to earn a Master of Science in Applied Cyber 
Operations for [indicate September 2016 or March 2017] start:
I meet all eligibility requirements specified in reference (a). Enclosures 
(1) through (5) are submitted to support my request.
    2.  I understand if selected for this opportunity, I shall incur a five-
year active duty service obligation upon enrollment at Naval Postgraduate 
School. If I fail to complete the required service (voluntarily or due to 
misconduct), I agree to reimburse the U.S.
Navy for the cost of the graduate education received, prorated for the 
obligated time served.
    3.  Upon completion of degree requirements, I understand I will be 
assigned based upon the needs of the Navy.  Priority will be given to cyber 
technical and operational requirements at the National Security Agency, U.S. 
Fleet Cyber Command/TENTH Fleet, Navy Information Operations Commands, and 
Navy Cyber Defense Operations Command.
    4.  I can be contacted at [provide phone, work and personal e-mail, and 
mailing address].

5.  Commanding officer's endorsement should address member's preparedness for 
this significant academic opportunity, ability to work independently, 
communication skills, potential for increased responsibilities, and any 
special considerations.  Commanding officers endorsement must include a 
statement of projected rotation date and intention to make the Sailor 
available for enrollment at NPS without regard to having a relief.

6.  Prior application submissions to this program do not disqualify a Sailor 
from applying.  However, applicants who did not receive conditional 
acceptance from NPS and have no additional academic qualifications should not 
apply again, as the academic standards have not changed.

7.  Selection results will be disseminated via NAVADMIN.  Due to the highly 
competitive nature of this program, notification of selection via NAVADMIN is 
a binding commitment that selectees must accept or rescind within five 
working days following release of the message.

8.  Upon selection, member must request (via command career counselor) an in-
rate quota in the Career Waypoints (C-WAY) system. Those members not in their 
C-WAY window should submit a "special circumstance" application indicating a 
reason code of "other" and the career counselor will be prompted to add a 
note indicating selection to the Master of Science in Applied Cyber 
Operations program.  If selected via "special circumstance" application, this 
program does not guarantee awarding of an in-rate C-WAY quota and is not 
considered part of an individual's performance indicator in the C-WAY 
process.

9.  General information about NPS can be found at www.nps.edu.

10.  The OPNAV N2/N6 point of contact is Mr. Michael Saunders at
(703) 604-6292/DSN 664 or via e-mail at
michael.saunders(at)navy.mil.  The NPS Admissions department may be reached 
via e-mail at admissions(at)nps.edu.

11.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 June 2017, 
whichever occurs first.

12.  Released By Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
