RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1841916-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 031916Z JUL 13 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 172/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON, DC/N3N5/JUN// 

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR (AY) 14-15 FEDERAL EXECUTIVE FELLOW (FEF), U.S. 
NAVY HUDSON FELLOWSHIP, AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (SECDEF) CORPORATE FELLOWS PROGRAM 
CALL FOR APPLICATIONS// 

REF/A/DOC/CNO/22JUN2010// 
REF/B/DOC/CNO/01OCT1991// 
NARR/REF (A) IS OPNAVINST 1500.72G, NAVY POLITICO-MILITARY FELLOWSHIPS, GRADUATE 
EDUCATION PROGRAMS, AND COMMUNITY SPONSORSHIP.  REF (B) IS OPNAVINST 1520.23B, 
GRADUATE EDUCATION.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for AY 2014-2015 Federal FEF Program, U.S. Navy Hudson 
Fellowship, and SECDEF Corporate Fellows Program (SDCFP) for study in National security strategy and 
policy.  
Program applications are due to Navy Personnel Command no later than August 23, 2013.  The selection 
board is scheduled to convene October 09, 2013.  Selection board results will be advertised via a 
separate NAVADMIN.

2.  The FEF program and the Hudson Fellowship are primary educational means for the Navy to develop 
strategists who can provide solid military advice to senior leaders, both military and civilian.  These 
programs produce for the Navy a group of strategically educated and adept individuals uniquely 
qualified by aptitude and experience in the formulation and articulation of strategy.  Graduates of these 
programs are subspecialty officers who will have recurring operational assignments to further develop 
their strategic skills.  
They will serve in a number of critical strategy and policy, National security decision-making, and 
international engagement billets on major Joint and Service Staffs around the globe.

3.  Federal Executive Fellowship.  FEF is a program designed to develop Naval Strategists for utilization in 
key strategy billets.  
The program provides selected officers an opportunity to improve their understanding of the National 
security decision making process through assignment to non-profit research organizations and academic 
institutions, with follow-on reutilization assignments within the Naval Strategy subspecialty.  These 
officers will serve at least one tour in a validated Strategist position in a major N5 or J5 Staff billet as 
soon as possible but not later than the second subsequent shore tour.  Some officers may serve multiple 
tours in strategy positions after the FEF program, subject to career timing.
    a.  Eligibility.  All active duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line Officers and officers with the following 
designators:  171x, 172x, 181x, and 183x are eligible.  Preference for selection will be given to officers 
with a 2000-series coded Master's degree and demonstrated interest and/or experience in National 
security strategy, policy or Pol-Mil affairs.
    b.  Full-Year Program Specifics.  At least five officers will be selected for Academic Year (AY) 14-15 
fellowships at academic institutions beginning in August 2014.  Per ref (A), officers who complete this 
program will receive the 2000 subspecialty code as well as the 240 Additional Qualification Designation 
(AQD) code.  Officers must include a research proposal with their applications.  A template for the 
proposal can be found on the Naval Personnel Command website under Graduate Education Programs 
(PERS 440).  Applicants shall rank order their preference from the following list of potential FEF 
institutions:
        (1) The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University - Medford, MA
        (2) Hoover Institution, Stanford University - Palo Alto, CA
        (3) John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University - Cambridge, MA
        (4) Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) Johns Hopkins University - 
Washington, DC  
        (5) Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA
        (6) Triangle Center on Terrorism and Homeland Security, Duke University - Durham, NC
    c.  Half-Year Program Specifics.  At least eight officers will be selected for six-month fellowships at 
Washington, D.C. area think tanks.  Four officers will begin in September 2014, and four will begin in 
March 2015.  Per ref (A), officers who complete this program will receive the 2000 subspecialty code as 
well as the 240 Additional Qualification Designation (AQD) code.  Applicants shall indicate desired start 
date (September 2014 or March 2015) and rank order their preference from the following list of 
potential FEF institutions:
        (1) The Atlantic Council of the United States (ACUS) - Washington, DC
        (2) The Brookings Institution - Washington, DC
        (3) Center for A New American Security (CNAS) - Washington, DC
        (4) Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (CSBA) - Washington, DC
        (5) Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) - Washington, DC
        (6) RAND Corporation - Washington, DC
    d.  More details regarding the FEF program can be found on the NPC website under Graduate 
Education Programs (PERS 440).

4.  U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship at Oxford University.  The U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship is the U.S. Navy 
counterpart to the Royal Navy Hudson Fellowship at Oxford University.  St. Antony's College normally 
hosts the Hudson Fellow and specializes in international affairs.  The selected fellow will be involved in 
the Changing Character of War (CCW) program led by the History faculty at Oxford.
CCW brings together representatives of the Armed Services, government, and multinational 
organizations from across the world to provide practical knowledge in the interdisciplinary study of war 
and armed conflict. The selected officer will serve at least one tour in a validated Strategist position in a 
major N5 or J5 Staff billet as soon as possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore tour.
    a.  Eligibility.  All active duty post-command O5-O6 Unrestricted Line Officers and officers in the 171x, 
172x, 181x, and 183x are eligible.  In addition to the U.S. Navy's FEF screening board, an additional 
screening by the Oxford Hudson Fellowship Selection Board is required.  Officers must include a 
research proposal with their applications to be considered for the Hudson Fellowship at Oxford 
University.  A template for the proposal can be found on the NPC website under Graduate Education 
Programs (PERS 440).
    b.  Program Specifics.  One officer may be selected per Academic Year. Fellowship will begin in August 
2014.  Per ref (A), officers who complete this program receive the 2000S subspecialty code as well as the 
240 AQD.

5.  Naval Strategy Community.  Officers who complete either the FEF or Hudson Fellowship will earn the 
2000 subspecialty code and serve at least one tour in a validated subspecialty billet in either Pol-Mil 
Affairs or strategy and policy as soon as possible, but not later than the second shore tour.  Where 
information in this NAVADMIN differs from ref (A), this NAVADMIN takes precedence. 
    a.  Officers must complete the request for subspecialty (SSP) code form to obtain the appropriate 
2300 SSP code (located in the notes section at https://navprodev.bol.navy.mil/nss/).

6.  SECDEF Corporate Fellows Program.  This one-year program was established in 1995 to provide a 
venue for exceptional officers to experience business innovation practices with the goal of incorporating 
them into the Navy.  Military fellows from each of the Services are paired with senior executives in 
various corporations known for their willingness to challenge and adapt their business practices.  
Fellows should expect follow-on assignment to positions involved in strategic management issues 
related to innovation and transformation.
    a.  Eligibility.  All active duty officers, O5-O6, are eligible.
    b.  Program Specifics.  Up to two officers will be selected for Fiscal Year 2014.  Fellowships will begin in 
July 2014.  Past fellows have been assigned to corporations such as:  AMGEN, Boeing, CNN, Cisco, 
Dupont,FEDEX, Honeywell, IBM, Merck, Microsoft, Pfizer, Raytheon, and 3M.  
Officers who complete this program will receive the 2000S subspecialty code.  
More details regarding SDCFP can be found at http://www.ndu.edu/SDCFP/index.htm.

7.  Application procedures.  For FEF, Hudson, and SDCFP programs, use the application format outlined 
in ref (A).  If applying for more than one program, a single application is permissible but the subject line 
must list the programs, in preference order, for which the officer is applying.  Interested officers should 
submit applications electronically to OPNAV N51 and BUPERS points of contact listed below.  
Ensure electronic copies are clear and legible prior to submission.
    a.  FEF and Hudson applicants shall include a research proposal with their applications. A template 
may be found on the BUPERS Graduate Education Placement page. Proposals should include the
following:
        (1) Background: Why is this issue relevant?
        (2) Purpose of this Study: What will this research accomplish?
        (3) Research Questions: List 3-5 questions that will guide your research.
        (4) Method of Research: How will you find information?
        (5) Significance of this Study: Why is this research important?

8.  Point(s) of contact.
    a.  OPNAV:  LT Alan Syslo (N515); DSN 222-4482 or comm 703-692-4482;
email:  alan.syslo(at)navy.mil.
    b.  NAVPERSCOM: LCDR Angelin Graham; DSN 882-4056 or comm 901-874-4056; e-mail: 
angelin.graham(at)navy.mil.

9.  Released by VADM M. I. Fox, DCNO N3/N5.//
BT
#6003
NNNN

