UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 301841Z AUG 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 211/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//


MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/AUG//


SUBJ/REQUEST ASSISTANCE IN REDUCING THE NUMBER OF BACKLOGGED NAVY BACKGROUND 
INVESTIGATIONS//


REF/A/DOC/DNI/16FEB17//

REF/B/DOC/DUSN(P)/02NOV17//

NARR/REF A IS DNI MEMORANDUM ES 2017-00049, STRATEGY TO MITIGATE THE IMPACT 
OF NATIONAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS BUREAUS BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION 
BACKLOG, 16 FEBRUARY 2017.
REF B IS THE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE NAVY MEMORANDUM FOR NAVAL SECURITY 
ENTERPRISE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides an update on the Navy's efforts to reduce the 
number of backlogged background investigations and highlights how individual 
commands can assist in this effort.


2.  The National Background Investigations Bureau (NBIB) has more than 
700,000 investigations overdue or pending for the Department of Defense 
(DoD).  As of 1 June 2018, the NBIB reported 85,812 pending or overdue 
investigations for the Navy and 33,576 pending or overdue investigations for 
the U.S. Marine Corps.  This extensive backlog of open background 
investigation degrades Navy readiness and compromises mission accomplishment.


3.  In response, the Deputy Director of Naval Intelligence (OPNAV
N2N6I) established the Navy Background Investigations Backlog (BIB) Branch, 
(OPNAV N2N6I/NIA SI3), in January 2018 and charged it with developing and 
implementing innovative strategies for drawing down the Navys significant 
background investigation backlog.  Proven mitigation approaches include the 
establishment of temporary hubs and surges at Navy installations.
    a.	Hubs are central locations where NBIB investigators conduct
Enhanced Subject Interviews (ESIs), for an extended period of time, in 
geographic areas with a high concentration of overdue and pending background 
investigation cases.
    b.	Surges employ a group of NBIB investigators to conduct ESIs,
for a short period of time, in geographic areas with a smaller concentration 
of pending cases.


4.  A Joint Service hub operation was completed in the Tidewater, Virginia 
area earlier this year.  The second Navy hub operation is scheduled in the 
San Diego area later this month.  Surges have been completed at the Office of 
Naval Intelligence, Suitland, MD; Fleet Cyber Command, Fort Meade, MD; Naval 
Submarine Base New London, Groton, CT; Kitsap, Bangor, WA and at Corry 
Station, Pensacola, FL.  To date, surges have proven very successful in 
reducing the number of backlogged investigations in these areas.


5.  To continue to drawdown pending background investigations, and in 
coordination with the NBIB, the Navy BIB Branch will work to identify 
additional locations for upcoming hub or surge efforts.  Navy BIB Branch will 
notify local commands and begin local coordination when new locations are 
identified.  No action is required by your command until notified by Navy 
BIB.


6.  Once notified, command assistance will be required in the following 
areas:
    a.  Point of Contact (POC):  NBIB will require a POC for each location 
identified as a hub or surge site during the planning and execution phases.  
The Navy BIB Branch is fully involved in these efforts and regularly engages 
with the local command and NBIB for progress updates and to address concerns.
    b.	Awareness:  Local commands must make interview subjects aware
of the importance of this initiative and the impact it will have on our 
cleared force.  Commands must ensure subject participation in hub or surge 
efforts as required.  Supervisors and subjects must be held accountable for 
meeting scheduled appointment or interview times.  Local commands are 
encouraged to make the workforce aware of these initiatives and ensure 
complete support to make the hub or surge a success (for example: handouts, 
videos, or group emails).
    c.	Physical Space:  Navy BIB Branch will work with local commands
to leverage installation office space for interviews in the hub and surge 
area.  NBIB will identify office spaces requirements in specific area provide 
an estimated of the time the space will needed by the investigators.
        (1) The requirements for acceptable space include: privacy (closed 
door space or sufficient space for private conversation), a desk and two 
chairs, ease of access (unclassified space preferred), and ample adjacent 
parking.
        (2) Spaces should be consolidated in one location (for example: a 
training building with multiple rooms), if possible, or buildings within 
close proximity, normally within a 10  15 minute walking distance.  Navy BIB 
Branch can provide pictures of previously approved spaces as examples.
        (3) Once spaces are identified by the local command, the Navy BIB 
Branch will inspect the space for suitability according to NBIB guidelines.  
The NBIB will then send a team to inspect the spaces and approve the spaces 
for the hub or surge.  Navy BIB Branch members will accompany the NBIB team 
to ensure any on-site issues are mitigated.
    d.	Locator:  Local commands may need to assist with verifying
the current location of a subject before interviews are scheduled.
If a command validates subject locations prior to case assignment, it will 
reduce the time NBIB spends tracking down interviewees, especially if the 
subject is no longer assigned to the area.  The command may also need to 
notify the subject of the scheduled interview (date, time, location), if NBIB 
requests assistance.
    e.	Scheduling:  NBIB has limited time to schedule and then
interview personnel at the hub or surge locations.  The NBIB may request 
assistance of local commands to schedule individuals for interviews, at which 
time the Navy BIB Branch will provide guidance and a scheduling tool for the 
command.  OPNAV requests the full support of senior leadership and 
subordinates to ensure all military and civilian personnel attend their 
scheduled interview appointment with NBIB investigators.  Once scheduled, the 
interview appointment should be considered a mandatory appointment unless 
there is sufficient reason to reschedule or cancel.  The goal is to have all 
interview appointments scheduled during regular business hours.
    f.	Subject Actions:  Subjects of an interview will work with a
NBIB investigator to schedule their interviews, review their Standard Form 
(SF86) contents, and arrive prepared to discuss all areas.  Subjects will 
meet the investigator at a designated location.  It is reasonable to travel 
within a 30-45-minute radius to a location the investigator has made 
available to conduct an interview.
        (1) Preparation:  Subjects must provide required identification (such 
as a CAC), any additional documents (i.e., a passport if applicable); have a 
smart phone, address book, or other information (to provide names, addresses 
and phone numbers for references), SF86 updates (a SF86 Certification (SF86C) 
if applicable); and be prepared to discuss past employment, residences, close 
contacts, schools, and any other areas covered in the SF86.  Subjects should 
take great care in preparing their SF86 prior to submission, and if life 
changes have occurred since initial submission of the SF86, subjects should 
prepare and have on-hand a revised SF86C.
        (2) The local Command Security Manager or Command Special Security 
Officer can provide assistance on preparation of the SF86.


7.  The Navy is steadily reducing the number of backlogged investigations 
through hubs, surges, and other initiatives.  The current Navy background 
investigation backlog is now a critical Navy readiness issue.  Through 
efficient hub and surge operations, the Navy, in close cooperation with the 
NBIB, can reduce the backlog of investigations to a reasonable level in a 
timely manner.


8.  Any questions should be directed to Ms. Jennifer Floyd, OPNAV N2N6I/NIA 
SI3, at 703-604-5564 or via email at jennifer.floyd3(at)navy.mil.


9.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//


BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

