UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 081505Z JAN 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 008/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/MYNAVY PORTAL MYRECORD MOBILE (BETA) APP LAUNCH//

RMKS/1.  Navy launched the MyNavy Portal MyRecord Mobile (Beta) App on 
04 January 2019.  MyRecord Mobile (Beta) is our first mobile app using 
commercial grade Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) credentials for security 
instead of a Common Access Card (CAC) to deliver mobile human resources 
services to Sailors.  MyRecord Mobile (Beta) App is available on the Apple 
App Store for iPhone and the Google Play Store for Android.

2.  This initial release has limited functionality specifically linked to a 
portion of personnel and training information from the Electronic Training 
Jacket (ETJ) of the Sailor, in a read-only mode, as the primary function of 
the release is to evaluate the CAC-less access.  Future releases will rapidly 
expand access to eventually include the entire Navy pay and personnel record 
of the Sailor and will allow Sailors to submit changes and conduct all 
transactions from their personal mobile devices with the same level of 
security as they expect from their personal banking services.  Sailors should 
check their data on MyRecord Mobile (Beta) for accuracy and contact MyNavy 
Career Center (MNCC) to make updates or corrections.  The app pulls from the 
same official data sources as MyNavy Portal and the family of Navy Personnel 
Command/BUPERS and Navy Education and Training Command websites, but if there 
is a mismatch, we would appreciate your help by reporting it.  Also, since at 
this point the entire record of the Sailor is not yet on this Beta version of 
the app, it is important to conduct a full record review via our current IT 
systems prior to boards.

3.  Sailors with a mobile phone or tablet that is secured using a PIN, 
pattern, password or fingerprint should follow the steps below to gain access 
to the MyRecord Mobile (Beta) App.
    a.  Log into MyNavy Portal (MNP) at https://my.navy.mil on a CAC-enabled 
machine.
        (1) At the top of the page, you should see your name.  Click on your 
name and select CAC Free setup.
        (2) Follow the steps for either iOS or Android to authenticate your 
identity under the Instructions tab.  Note:  This is a one-time event and 
allows the user to establish their secure Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) 
account to log into the app.  You may receive an email regarding activating 
your account.  However, no action is required on this email.  Following the 
instructions in the CAC-free setup wizard within MNP will properly activate 
your account.
    b.  Visit the Apple App Store (iPhone) or Google Play Store
(Android) and download the free non-Navy app, Okta Verify.  This Navy-
approved app allows us to operate in a secure environment without a CAC.
    c.  Visit the Apple App Store (iPhone) or Google Play Store
(Android) and download the free Navy app, MNP MyRecord.
        (1) Launch the app and enter your e-mail address as it appeared in 
Step 1 as the User ID.
        (2) Enter the password created on the MNP webpage in the previous 
step.
        (3) Press Sign In.  Note:  The Okta Verify App must be running when 
using the MNP MyRecord App.  This allows secure communication of information.
        (4) A notification will pop up asking to verify the user from the 
Okta Verify App and the user must approve it to continue.
Once this is complete, you can now use the MyRecord Mobile (Beta) App.

4.  MyRecord Mobile (Beta) App is available for all Sailors.  This is a full 
scale beta test which allows Sailors to provide feedback about what they like 
and dislike, as well as what they would like to see in the future.  Sailors 
can send their comments to MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) by selecting the e-
mail link in the app askmncc(at)navy.mil or by calling 1-833-330-MNCC (833-
330-6622).
Your feedback will ensure we develop future products that meet the needs of 
all Sailors.  If Sailors are experiencing difficulty with the MyRecord Mobile 
(Beta) App, please e-mail MNCC at askmncc(at)navy.mil or call 1-833-330-MNCC 
(833-330-6622) for assistance.  Sailors should also keep in mind that this is 
a Beta release.  Early testing indicated an occasional error resulting in 
misalignment of data fields.  Before submitting records for correction, first 
verify your status on the MNP desktop version.

5.  Starting with this MyRecord Mobile (Beta) App launch, new capabilities 
and functionality will be released over time.  As functionality improves, you 
can expect to find an increasing number of tools at your fingertips that will 
allow you and your spouse to accomplish things that previously required a 
trip to a Personnel Support Detachment.  We will continue to make updates to 
the MyRecord Mobile (Beta) App.  Ensure you update the application to the 
newest version when available.  You can also turn on automatic updates within 
your devices settings to ensure you always have the most up-to-date version.  
Coupled with the improved Customer Service and responsiveness of MNCC, you 
can expect continuous improvement in how personnel services are delivered in 
the coming months.

6.  Point of contact:  CAPT Ian Branum, OPNAV (N16), at (703) 604- 5747/DSN 
664 or e-mail at ian.branum(at)navy.mil.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral, R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

