UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 301615Z MAR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS //N01650//

NAVADMIN 075/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

SUBJ/2017 AMERICAN LEGION SPIRIT OF SERVICE AWARD//

POC/JAMES ADAMS/LT/NAVCO/LOC: MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:(901) 874-5882/
EMAIL:  JAMES.F.ADAMS(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  The American Legion will present its Spirit of Service Award to an 
enlisted member (E-5 and below) from each branch of the Armed Forces.  The 
award, given since 2000, will be presented by the National Commander, Charles 
Schmidt, on stage at the Legion's national convention in Reno, NV. 18-24 
August 2017.

2.  Eligibility.  The main criterion of the award is the level of volunteer 
community service that a Sailor performs off-duty in the local community.  
The period of service is 1 January 2016 - 31 December 2016, and nominees must 
be E-5 or below during the period of service.  Nominees may be active or 
reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals.  Previous winners of 
this award are not eligible.  If chosen as the recipient, the awardee must 
attend the American Legion national convention.

3.  Travel and lodging.  Within CONUS, the American Legion will provide 
travel and lodging expenses for the individual winner only. The winner is 
responsible for travel expenses for family members or guests.  The winner 
will arrive at the convention hotel on Saturday, 19 August, and depart 
Wednesday, 23 August.

4.  Nominations.  Nomination packages must contain the Commanding Officer's 
(CO) nomination, a description of the volunteer service performed, a 
biography of the Sailor, a high-resolution JPEG head or full body photograph 
of the Sailor and a signed consent for release of information.
    a.  Commanding Officer nomination.  COs may nominate one Sailor from 
their command.  Nominations must be on command letterhead and indicate the 
CO's confidence in the Sailor's professionalism and as a representative of 
the Navy, the validity of the volunteer efforts and a commitment to 
facilitate their nominee's attendance at the national convention, if 
selected.  Endorsements are not required.
    b.  Volunteer efforts.  Description of volunteer efforts must include 
quantitative data such as hours, days, or months spent on off-duty volunteer 
community service.  This description should be provided in a bullet format.
    c.  Nominee photo.  A high-resolution JPEG head or full body
photograph of the Sailor is required.
    d.  Nominee biography.  If chosen as the award recipient, the biography 
will be used in the Legion's magazine and convention program.  The biography 
should include hometown information as well as professional highlights and 
qualifications.
    e.  Signed consent for release of information.  A written and signed 
statement of consent by the Sailor, authorizing release of information 
contained in the nomination, is required per the Privacy Act of 1974.  The 
following statement is a sample of written consent:
"I, (rate/rank/full name), do hereby authorize the release of all information 
enclosed in this nomination package to those persons involved in the 
selection process."

5.  Nomination submission.  Nominations must be received by 19 May 2017.  
Nominations must be submitted electronically to james.f.adams(AT)navy.mil.

6.  Selection process.  The Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO) will 
consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board, and recommend the top 
candidates to the American Legion, which will make the selection.  NAVCO will 
inform the winner and also notify those not selected.

7.  Released by VADM J. G. Foggo, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
