UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 022236Z DEC 19 MID510000756726U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 273/19

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/DEC//

SUBJ/CNO MESSAGE TO THE FORCE//

RMKS/1.  Mission one for every Sailor - active and reserve, uniformed and 
civilian - is the operational readiness of today's Navy.  That means being 
ready both in our personal and professional lives.  And part of that 
readiness is continuing to hold ourselves to high ideals of integrity and 
service.

2.  Reflecting on my first three months as CNO, I want each and every Sailor 
to think about who we are as a Navy and the constitutional oath we commit 
ourselves to.  That oath is what binds us together.  It is the foundation of 
our profession.  It is our north star.  It defines us.

3.  It is no overstatement to say that naval service requires deeper and 
broader knowledge than it ever has before.  You must summon all your energy 
to ensure that we are ready to fight today...not tomorrow...not in some 
distant future...but today.
That all starts with good order and discipline at every level of the chain of 
command.

4.  To be clear, we must be men and women of integrity.  We must be 
honorable.  We must be standard-bearers.  We must be above reproach.  And we 
must not give anyone cause to question our fundamental values.  That is what 
sets us apart as a fighting force.

5.  Leaders, I am counting on you.  I expect Commanders at every level to 
epitomize integrity and exemplify our core values at all times.  Senior 
Enlisted Leaders, I expect you to anchor up and show your Sailors what right 
looks like on the deck-plates, day-in and day-out.  And I expect every Sailor 
to display the character and honor that has always defined our Navy.  These 
ideals are central to who we are.

6.  The responsibility for ethical and professional behavior must be taken 
seriously - and we must own it at every level.  We must be protectors and 
exemplify our values.

7.  I'm counting on each of you to set a strong personal example of 
responsible behavior, both on and off duty.

8.  While there is much work to be done, the tenacity and ingenuity of our 
Sailors will take us where we need to go - and do so at a Flank Bell.

9.  See you in the Fleet.

10.  Released by Admiral Michael M. Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

