UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 061305Z FEB 15 PSN 623268H27
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO ZEN/CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 035/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JAN//

SUBJ/2015 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/11DEC14/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/21DEC12//
REF/C/RMG/COMNAVRESFOR NORFOLK VA/271316Z AUG 14//
REF/D/DOC/OSD/08OCT14/NOTAL//
NARR/REF A IS SECDEF FY15 STRATEGIC PUBLIC AFFAIRS OUTREACH PLAN.
REF B IS OPNAVINST 5726.8A, OUTREACH:  AMERICA*S NAVY.
REF C IS GUIDANCE ON RESERVE COMMUNITY OUTREACH ACTIVITIES IN AN INACTIVE 
DUTY TRAINING STATUS IN SUPPORT OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2015 NAVY RESERVE 
CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.  REF D IS OSD MEMORANDUM ISSUING GUIDANCE FOR 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH IN LOCAL AREAS FOR FY15. POC/ROB NEWELL/CIV/CHINFO/LOC:  
WASHINGTON, DC/TEL:  (703) 614-1879/EMAIL:  ROBERT.D.NEWELL(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a) this NAVADMIN issues implementation guidance and 
tasks support for the Navy's community outreach plan for 2015.

2.  Background.  Community and public outreach is a crucial activity that 
reinforces trust and confidence in the Navy and its people, and increases the 
American public understanding of the Navy and its importance to national 
security and prosperity.  An effective outreach program is particularly vital 
to the Navy due to the concentration of our bases and assets along America*s 
coasts, and lack of exposure to the vast majority of middle America.  
Reference (b) sets forth responsibilities for the Navy*s community outreach 
program.  Following two years during which outreach programs have been 
severely curtailed due to budget limitations imposed by sequestration, 
reference (a) authorizes the services to resume outreach activities to meet
Community outreach objectives in a sustainable, fiscally-responsible manner.

3.  The following outreach programs are authorized for Calendar Year 2015 
(CY15) and the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 (FY16).
   a.  Fleet Weeks.  Reference (a) approves the Navy for the execution of 
eight Fleet Weeks:  New Orleans, LA; New York City, NY; Port Everglades, FL; 
San Francisco, CA; Seattle, WA; Portland, OR; Los Angeles and San Diego, CA.  
Tasking and responsibilities for these events will be provided separate 
correspondence by the cognizant operational and regional commanders.
   b.  Navy Weeks.  Reference (a) approves the Navy for 12 Navy Weeks in 
2015:  Bossier-Shreveport, LA, April 27*May 3; Quad Cities, IA, May 4-10; 
Rhode Island, May 25*31; Rockford, IL, June 1-7; Cheyenne, WY, July 13-19; 
Fargo, ND, July 20-26; Indianapolis, IN, Aug 10-14; Kansas City, MO, Aug 17-
23; Detroit, MI, Aug 24-30; Salt Lake City, UT, Sept 7-13; Oklahoma City, OK, 
Sept 21-27; and Atlanta, GA, Oct 26-Nov 1.
      (1) Per reference (b), the Navy Week program is a requirement, led by 
the Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO).  It is also a top Chief of 
Naval Operations (CNO) outreach priority.  As such, the following commands 
and activities will support the 2015 Navy Week campaign to the maximum extent 
possible within operational and budgetary constraints:
         (a) Naval Special Warfare Command and Commander, Navy Recruiting 
Command (COMNAVCRUITCOM) will make the Navy Parachute Team available 
depending on venues, opportunities and funding.
         (b) Navy Expeditionary Combat Command will make expeditionary units 
(divers, EOD teams, riverine or Seabees) and their equipment available.
         (c) Air Force (AIRFOR), Surface Force and Submarine Force will 
support with Sailors assigned to ships and submarines with namesake city or 
state ties.  For cities where more than one namesake unit has a relationship, 
NAVCO will coordinate with Type Commands (TYCOMs) to determine the most 
feasible assignment.  AIRFOR will also support with hometown Sailors from 
non-deployed aircraft carriers.
         (d) Per reference (c), Reserve Force will support with Naval 
Operational Support Center Sailors and other resources as coordinated with 
NAVCO Navy Week planning leads.  This support is particularly critical and 
germane in 2015 during the Navy Reserve Centennial commemoration.
         (e) Bureau of Medicine and Surgery will support with Navy medical 
professionals, equipment or displays as appropriate.
         (f) Office of Naval Research will participate with personnel and 
assets participating in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
(STEM) events.
         (g) AIRFOR will support with aircraft and aircrew participation, 
when possible, leveraging the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps Naval 
Aviation Sponsorship Program.
         (h) The Navy Music Program will support with regional bands.
         (i) Naval Education and Training Command and Naval Service Training 
Command will support with participation from NROTC units.
         (j) USS CONSTITUTION will support with Sailors, equipment and 
displays.
         (k) U.S. Fleet Forces Command and the Office of the Chief of Naval 
Operations (OPNAV) N45 will support with environmental personnel and 
displays.
         (l) COMNAVCRUITCOM will support with Navy Recruiting District's 
(NRD)/Navy Recruiting Station Sailors, with specific numbers of Sailors and 
days of participation coordinated separately between each participating NRD 
and Navy Week planning team.  Understanding the unique mission of the STEM 
tour, the cognizant NRD will determine whether an appropriate venue exists 
for the STEM tour during each Navy Week.
         (m) Navy commands and units within a reasonable distance of Navy 
Week cities will support with home town Sailors, other personnel and 
equipment, as coordinated with Navy Week planning teams.
         (n) Blue Angel performances will provide the foundational event for 
Navy Weeks in Bossier-Shreveport, LA, Quad Cities, IA, Rhode Island, 
Rockford, IL, Fargo, ND, Kansas City, MO, Detroit, MI and Atlanta, GA.
   c.  Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval Aviation outreach is particularly 
effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring a primary warfighting 
platform to inland markets.  Reference (a) has authorized the following:
      (1) A full 36-show schedule for the Blue Angels.
      (2) 25 shows for the Navy Parachute Team.
      (3) 6 Navy-hosted air shows/open houses in El Centro, CA; Corpus 
Christi, TX; Oceana, VA; Ventura County, CA; Jacksonville, FL; and Pensacola, 
FL.  These air shows are authorized to have aerial demonstrations by aviation 
assets that are organic to the installation.
      (4) 20 TACAIRDEMO performances at Chief of Information (CHINFO)-
approved civilian air shows not featuring the Blue Angels.
      (5) 10 aircraft static displays at CHINFO authorized civilian air shows 
not featuring the Blue Angels or a TACAIRDEMO. Additionally:
         (a) Navy aircraft executing training missions involving cross-
country flights are permitted to conduct static displays at military-hosted 
open houses and air shows when, as part of the mission, a layover is 
required.  These events will not count against the ten approved static 
displays referenced in para 3.C.(5) above.
         (b) Local assets from sister military services may fly to a local 
military installation to serve as a static display during a military-hosted 
open house or military-hosted air show.
      (6) 40 flyovers, equally divided between east and west coast aviation 
assets, at CHINFO-authorized events.  The following procedures will apply 
when requesting a flyover in 2015:
         (a) Requests will be submitted to NAVCO via form DD2535. Point of 
contact is Mr. Ian Lundy, (901) 874-5803, aviationsupport(at)navy.mil.
         (b) NAVCO will make an event eligibility determination IAW 
established criteria as set forth in Department of Defense and Navy 
regulations.
         (c) NAVCO will evaluate the return on investment in terms of 
audience reach, media coverage potential, audience size, recruiting 
priorities, Gallup data, Chief of Naval Personnel diversity priority
markets, previous naval aviation support and Flag Officer/Congressional/
other high-level interest in support.
         (d) In coordination with Naval Aviation TYCOMs, CHINFO will own the 
final decision regarding authorization for support.
         (e) Due to the limited number of authorized Naval Aviation outreach 
events in 2015, dispersion of assets is paramount.  As such, there should 
never be more than one Naval Aviation asset at a single venue.
      (7) Military services retain operational authority over support for 
funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not considered community 
outreach events, and therefore, not affected by reference
(a).
   d.  Continental United States port visits.  From an outreach perspective, 
there is no more effective means to showcase the Navy*s capabilities and its 
talented Sailors than allowing Americans to visit a ship or submarine.  As 
such, 11 port visits for outreach have been approved to Mobile, AL; 
Charleston, SC; Boston, MA; Savannah, GA; Eastport, ME; Bristol, RI; 
Philadelphia, PA; Rockland, ME; Gloucester, MA; Malibu, CA; and Santa 
Barbara, CA.  Other port visits conducted primarily for training or 
operational purposes (e.g. those made to Newport, RI in support of Surface 
Warfare Officers School) are not accounted for among the 11 approved.
   e.  Executive Engagement Visits.  Reference (a) approves dedicated 
outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic and executive 
outreach.  NAVCO will run the Navy*s Executive Outreach Visit program for 
Flag Officers and Senior Executive Service civilians for the purpose of 
conducting multi-day outreach engagements in U.S. cities.  NAVCO will 
coordinate itineraries for participating Navy leaders, to include engagements 
with corporate executives, government officials, education leaders, civic 
groups, veterans organizations and media.  Point of contact is Mr. Todd 
Martin, (901) 874-5805, todd.martin(at)navy.mil.
   f.  Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most effective 
means to connect Americans with their Navy is through strong and enduring 
namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the requirements specified for 
the Navy Week program referenced in para 3.B. above, reference (a) approves 
an undetermined number of visits by crewmembers of ships and submarines with 
namesake ties to their namesake city or state.  Units should staff requests 
for such visits via their chain of command to their cognizant TYCOM for 
approval. NAVCO is available to assist in the development of itineraries for
namesake crew visits.  Point of contact is LCDR Tim Page, (901) 874-7048,
timothy.c.page(at)navy.mil.
   g.  Navy Band tours and performances.  Reference (a) approves the fall, 
spring and summer tours for the Navy*s premier bands, the use of operational 
funding for regional band outreach travel and performances, and participation 
in the International and Midwest Band and Orchestra Clinic.
   h.  Navy Birthday and Historical Observances.  Funding has been approved 
under reference (a) for commands and activities to commemorate the Navy 
Birthday, Battle of Midway and other historical observances.
   i.  Community Outreach in Local Areas for FY15. Per reference (d), the 
following is authorized with respect to outreach in local areas:
      (1) Commanders are encouraged to engage in and support local community 
outreach efforts with speakers, musical units, ceremonial assets, and ground 
equipment static displays.  Aerial demonstrations, civic leader travel using 
aircraft, and aircraft static displays must be included and identified in 
reference (a).
      (2) Commanders also are authorized to support local community outreach 
efforts at a cost up to $5,000 per single event without seeking an exception 
to policy for events not included in reference (a). All other support for 
events that would expend DoD funds should be executed within the Military 
Service guidelines that are captured in reference (a).
      (3) The precise definition of a local area is determined by the 
commander and dependent on the geographic layout of an installation; however, 
as a general guideline for the purpose of FY15 community outreach, a local 
area may be considered to be within 150 miles of an installation or any 
travel that can be completed to and from in a single business day.

4.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require approval by 
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs. Requests for 
an exception to policy must be forwarded through CHINFO.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#6647
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
