UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 091841Z DEC 19 MID510000792292U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 282/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE UPDATE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/261312ZOCT17//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/1JAN03//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/111904ZJUL18//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/251319ZMAR19//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 259/17, REDESIGNATION OF CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER 
SUBMARINE ELECTRONICS DESIGNATOR 728X AS ACOUSTIC TECHNICIAN.  
REF B IS NAVPERS 15665I, U.S. NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.
REF C IS NAVADMIN 163/18, NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE UPDATE.  
REF D IS NAVADMIN 075/19, NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE 
UPDATE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces updates to the Navy uniform policies, 
approved uniform design improvements and a status update on several Navy 
uniform initiatives.  Navy uniform policy updates directly support Sailor 
2025 objectives to attract and retain the very best Sailors by finding 
greater flexibility in our policies and practices, including uniforms.  Navy 
uniform policy updates are the result of Fleet feedback, command sponsored 
requests and direction from Navy leadership.  New uniform policy changes 
approved for this update include optional wear of the Gold Star Lapel Button 
(GSLB) and Next of Kin Lapel Button (NKLB), optional wear of a black neck 
gaiter for extreme cold weather environments, optional physical readiness 
test (PRT) swimwear, and the establishment of the Acoustic Technician Chief 
Warrant Officer insignia.  Approved new uniform design improvements include 
the summer white/service dress white maternity shirt and the Navy working 
uniform (NWU) and cold weather parka (CWP) black fleece liner.  Uniform 
initiative updates include MyNavy UNIFORMS application (App), improved boot 5 
(I-Boot) and new uniform/uniform component mandatory possession/wear dates.

2.  Navy Uniform Policy Update
    a.  GSLB and NKLB.  Effective immediately, the GSLB and NKLB are 
authorized for optional wear with service dress and full dress uniforms.  The 
GSLB is designated for eligible survivors of Service Members who lost their 
lives during any armed hostilities in which the United States is engaged.  
The NKLB is designated for eligible survivors of Service Members who lost 
their lives while on Active Duty or while assigned to a Reserve or National 
Guard unit in a drill status, but not as a result of armed conflict.  Policy 
guidance denoting wear eligibility criteria is contained in Section
1126 of U.S. Title Code 10 (GSLB:  Eligibility and distribution) and the Code 
of Federal Regulations, Section 578.63 of Title 32, chapter V.
        (1) Description.  The GSLB consists of a gold star on a purple 
circular background, bordered in gold and surrounded by gold laurel leaves.  
The NKLB consists of a gold star within a circle surrounded by sprigs of oak, 
and the entire button is gold in color.
Both buttons are approximately one inch in diameter.
        (2) Manner of wear.  Wear only one lapel button on the uniform.  
Sailors eligible to wear the GSLB and NKLB may wear the lapel button of 
choice.  The GSLB and NKLB is worn as follows:
(a) Dress uniform coats with lapels.  Officers, chief petty officers or 
female E-1 through E-6.  Center the GSLB or NKLB vertically and upright on 
the right lapel and adjacent to the placement of the nametag.
            (b) Dress uniform coats without lapels (chokers).
Center the lapel button on the wearers right breast approximately four inches 
from the outer edge of the coat when fastened and down between the top and 
second button fastener of the coat.
(c) Dress jumpers.  Center the lapel button on the front and right side of 
the jumper flap approximately five and a half inches to six and half inches 
from the bottom of the v-neck opening of the jumper (point where the collar 
opens).  On service dress jumpers with piping, ensure the lapel button is 
placed over three rows of piping.  On service dress white jumpers without 
piping, adjust the placement of the lapel button as necessary to ensure 
proper centering on the jumper flap.
    b.  Black neck gaiter.  Effective immediately, optional wear of a black 
neck gaiter is authorized during extreme cold weather conditions as 
promulgated by regional commanders ashore.  Neck gaiters authorized for wear 
will be removed upon request of security forces or senior military personnel 
to facilitate verifying the identity of individual Sailors when required.  
Neck gaiters are authorized for afloat Sailors within the lifelines of the 
ship/boat/vessel in line with the discretion of the commanding office.  Neck 
gaiters may be worn with the following cold weather outer garments only:  
cold weather parka, NWU type II/III parka, peacoat, reefer and all weather 
coat.
        (1) Description.  Black in color, polyester, cotton or polyester 
blend fabric.  The securing mechanism may be drawstring, zipper or elastic.  
Logos (if contained), must not be visible when worn with the uniform.
        (2) Manner of wear.  The neck gaiter will be worn to cover the area 
of the face and nose beneath the eyes and extend down inside the outer 
garment being worn.  When wearing the neck gaiter, fully fasten outer 
garments at the top to secure the neck gaiter in place and cover the uniform 
being worn.  The neck gaiter may also be worn with earmuffs, watch caps and 
appropriate Navy head gear.
        (3) Availability.  Neck gaiters are commercially procured non-
government issued clothing items.  Sailors may personally purchase neck 
gaiters from retail manufacturers wherever available.
    c.  Optional PRT swimwear.  Effective immediately, optional wear of full-
body swimwear is authorized for Sailors who elect to swim during their semi-
annual PRT.  Optional swimwear will be navy blue or black in color, 
conservative in design and appearance and must not prohibit the swimmer from 
swimming freely.  Authorized optional swimwear includes the following:
        (1) One-piece swimwear:
            (a) Males.  Physical training uniform (PTU) shorts, square 
trunks, board shorts or full body swimsuits.
            (b) Females.  Swimsuit covering the full torso less arms, 
swimsuit covering full torso and arms or full-body swimsuit covering torso, 
legs and arms.  One-piece swimwear back openings will not extend below the 
middle of the back.
        (2) Two-piece swimwear (Full torso coverage required):
            (a) Males.  PTU shorts, square trunks or board shorts with PTU 
shirt or rash guard top (short or long sleeve).
            (b) Females.  PTU shorts, square trunks or board shorts with PTU 
shirt or rash guard top (short or long sleeve), and two-piece 
burqinis/burkinis.
    d.  Acoustic technician chief warrant officer (CWO) (728X) Insignia.  In 
line with reference (a), the acoustic technician CWO insignia is authorized 
for wear by CWOs designated with a 728X designator.  The Acoustic technician 
CWO insignia design captures the rich 65-year history of the Naval integrated 
undersea surveillance system (IUSS).
        (1) Description.  A gold globe with vertical and horizontal lines 
representing latitude and longitude on which a Hippocampus
(seahorse) is centered.  The globe is bisected in the rear by a trident 
pointing upward.  The trident represents the ocean systems technician rating 
(OT), which spanned from 1969 through 1998 and subsequently merged with the 
sonar technician rating.  The trident also represents the three disciplines 
of IUSS-fixed, mobile and deployable systems.  The sea horse or Hippocampus 
has been associated with IUSS since the opening of the first Naval Ocean 
Processing Facility in the 1950s.  The globe represents the dominance of the 
global undersea environment.
        (2) Manner of wear is in line with reference (b), chapter 4, 
section 1.

3.  New uniform design improvements
    a.  The summer white/service dress white maternity shirt is being 
redesigned to enhance appearance and functionality when worn.
The new design improvements include princess seams, adjustable side tabs with 
three buttons, epaulettes and two side seam hidden pockets.  The improved 
design also removes chest pockets to align with the current style service 
khaki and Navy service uniform maternity shirt.  A future NAVADMIN will 
announce projected availability for purchase and wear.
    b.  NWU/CWP black fleece liner is being redesigned to facilitate enhanced 
wear and functionality as a stand-alone outer garment.
Development efforts are underway to enhance the design of the black fleece to 
include weather-resistant (rain and wind) outer fabric, attached rank tab and 
two side access pockets with zippered closures.  A future NAVADMIN will 
announce projected availability for purchase and wear.

4.  Navy uniform initiatives update
    a.  MyNavy UNIFORMS App.  The OPNAV Uniform Regulations App was revised 
and renamed in July 2019 and is now the MyNavy UNIFORMS App.
The latest revision includes the addition of Chapter 2 (Grooming
Standards) and Chapter 5 (identification badges, breast insignia, awards, 
aiguillettes, brassards, buttons, boatswains pipe and lanyard), as well as 
recently released uniform policy announcements.
The MyNavy UNIFORMS App may be downloaded from www.applocker.navy.mil or your 
preferred app store.
    b.  I-Boot 5.  Fleet testing of the I-Boot 5 previously announced in 
reference (c) continues to evaluate the performance of the boots under cold 
weather conditions.  Thus far, feedback from I- Boot 5 evaluation 
participants has been overwhelmingly positive, indicating the incorporated 
enhanced design features are a major improvement to the standard Navy safety 
footwear in the terms of overall fit, comfort and performance.  The 
evaluation will continue through the end of calendar year 2019 to facilitate 
wear during cold weather conditions.  The completion of the I-Boot 5 
evaluation, participant survey and final report to Navy leadership with 
recommendation is expected to occur by the first quarter of calendar year 
2020.  If the I-Boot 5 is approved, introduction into the sea bag and the 
fleet may be as early as Fiscal Year 2021.
          c.  New uniform/uniform component mandatory possession and wear 
dates.  The next phase of new uniforms mandatory wear and possession wear 
dates previously announced in reference (d) remains as follows:
        (1) Female E-1 through E-6 jumper style service dress blue with 
enlisted white hat:  31 January 2020.
        (2) Female officer and CPO service dress white coat(choker):  31 
January 2020.
        (3) Black cold weather parka:  30 April 2021.
        (4) Navy fitness suit:  30 September 2021.
        (5) Male and female E-1 through E-6 service dress white with blue 
piping:  31 October 2021.

5.  Questions regarding this NAVADMIN should be addressed to Mr.
Robert B. Carroll, Navy Uniform Matters Office (OPNAV N13X), via e- mail at 
robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil, CMDCM Marisol S. Dumlao, (OPNAV N13X) via e-
mail at marisol.dumlao(at)navy.mil or PSCS Alexandre D. Adriano at 
alexandre.d.adriano(at)navy.mil.  Questions regarding Civilian Clothing 
Allowances should be addressed to PS2 Philip Borisei, OPNAV N13X, via e-mail 
at philip.borisei(at)navy.mil.

6.  Feedback and recommendations regarding uniform policy, uniform components 
and uniform availability are welcome and can be provided via MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/, select Professional Resources, U.S. Navy Uniforms 
and *Ask The Chiefs.*  Feedback can also be provided via the MyNavy UNIFORMS 
App.

7.  Retain this NAVADMIN until policy changes are incorporated in reference 
(b), superseded or cancelled, whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

