UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 051854Z OCT 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 248/17

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/SEP//

SUBJ/NOMINATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 OCEANOGRAPHER OF THE NAVY AWARDS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/10OCT14//
AMPN/OPNAVINST 1650.37 NAVAL OCEANOGRAPHY AWARD PROGRAM.//
POC/TENNYSON SHARPE/AGCS/OPNAV N2N6E/-/TEL: (703)614-1839/EMAIL: 
TENNYSON.SHARPE(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  The Naval Oceanography Awards program was established to recognize 
outstanding achievement in the field of Naval Oceanography by officers, chief 
petty officers, and Department of the Navy (DON) civilians.  The award is 
sponsored by the Oceanographer of the Navy in accordance with reference (a).

2.  Award criteria and eligibility.  One awardee will be selected for each of 
the following awards.
    a.  Captain Richard C. Steere Award recognizes junior officers
    afloat or ashore for their leadership, performance, special
    accomplishments, and expert application of the meteorology and
    oceanography sciences in support of the safety of the fleet.
    Active and Reserve component 1800/6800 officers in the paygrades
    of O1-O3 are eligible.
    b.  The Commander Mary Sears Award recognizes mid-grade officers
    who demonstrate sustained superior performance, outstanding
    leadership ability, personal initiative, cooperation and
    adaptability, outstanding military bearing, and exemplary
    military
    and professional conduct.  Active and Reserve component 1800/6800
    officers in the paygrade of O4 are eligible.
    c.  The Chief Aerographers Mate John Dungan Jr. Award recognizes
    senior enlisted in the oceanography community afloat or ashore
    for
    their leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and
    expertise in forecasting and analysis in the applied sciences of
    meteorology and oceanography in support of fleet operations.
    Active and Reserve component Chief and Senior Chief Aerographers
    Mates are eligible.
    d.  The Matthew Henson Award recognizes DON civilian employees
    for their leadership, performance, special accomplishments, and
    expert application of the meteorology and oceanography sciences
    in
    support of naval operations. DON civilian employees at or below
    the grade of GS13 are eligible.

3.  Nominations.  The period of eligibility is from 1 October 2016 to
30 September 2017.  Nomination packages should be submitted as specified in 
reference (a).  Packages must arrive to the Oceanographer of the Navy via e-
mail to Senior Chief Aerographers Mate Tennyson Sharpe at 
tennyson.sharpe(at)navy.mil no later than 20 October 2017.  The Oceanographer 
of the Navy and Commander, Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command shall 
convene a joint board consisting of their respective Technical Directors, 
Senior Enlisted Advisor/Command Master Chief, Deputy/Chief of Staff, and 
others as appropriate who will select awardees based upon the above criteria 
and content of the respective nomination packages.  Nominations must be 
unclassified and submitted on command letterhead by scan and e-mail 
(preferred), or letter mail.  Nomination packages shall include:

    a.  Name/Rank or Grade;
    b.  Job Title, Pay Plan, and Occupation Code Organization and
    Location;
    c.  Date of commission/promotion history (officer) or pay entry
    base date/advancement history (enlisted);
    d.  Active duty assignments/employment (inclusive dates);
    e.  Significant prior awards (personal, service, campaign);
    f.  Education (Year, Degree, School, Major Field of study);
    g.  Command letter of endorsement;
    h.  Significant accomplishments in the past year (bullet format);
    i.  One page biography (include membership in professional or
    scientific societies, civic organizations, etc);
    j.  Completed OPNAV 1650/3, block 24 signed by parent command;
    and,
    k.  Draft Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal citation or
    Navy Meritorious Civilian Service Award citation, as appropriate.

4.  Recognition.  The Oceanographer of the Navy will announce the award by 
message on or about the birthday of Naval Oceanography, 6 December, and will 
recognize the awardee in person or via the service member’s respective 
commanding officer.

5.  Released by VADM Jan E. Tighe, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
