UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 011046Z SEP 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 216/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/SEP//

SUBJ/2017 OMBUDSMAN APPRECIATION DAY//

RMKS/1.  14 September 2017 is a day set aside for Navy personnel and families 
to show appreciation to command Ombudsmen for their dedicated service to the 
fleet, fighter, and family.  This practice goes back to the inception of the 
program in 1970, when ADM Elmo R. Zumwalt, Jr. introduced the Navy Family 
Command Ombudsman Program via Z-Gram 24.

2.  The contribution Ombudsmen make to the success of the command's mission 
is immeasurable.  Their efforts in supporting Navy families enable Sailors 
and commands to focus on mission requirements all while knowing families have 
a trained and reliable resource to provide support on the home front.

3.  Ombudsmen, your diligence and steadfast commitment are unmatched.  You 
are a key line of communication between the command and families, offering 
information and referral services that are essential to family readiness.  On 
behalf of Navy families, thank you for your service!

4.  Commanders, you have an important role in ensuring your Ombudsmen are 
ready to serve and are successful.  Commanders shall communicate with their 
Ombudsman regularly to gauge command families' morale, health, and welfare 
and to share command information that is relevant to our Navy families.
OPNAVINST 1750.1G (CH-2) directs commands to provide an updated roster of 
command familiy members in order to relay official information directly 
related to family readiness.  Commanders should make every effort to support 
their Ombudsman by fulfilling all requirements as set forth in OPNAVINST 
1750.1G (CH-2).

5.  Navy team, please take the opportunity to express well-deserved 
appreciation and gratitude to these selfless volunteers who are so crucial to 
the success of our Navy.  Make every effort to attend a recognition event 
near you.

6.  Additional information about the Ombudsman Program is available at 
www.ffsp.navy.mil.

7.  Released by ADM J. M. Richardson, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
