UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 081751Z DEC 14 PSN 643626K27
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 271/14

SUBJ/UNIFORM UPDATE FEMALE HAIR GROOMING POLICY// 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//
REF/A/DOC/NAVPERS 15665I/1JAN03//
AMPN/REFERENCE A IS THE UNITED STATES NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the revision of Navy*s female hair grooming 
policy.  This policy applies to female Sailors while wearing the Navy uniform 
and when wearing civilian clothes in the performance of duty.

2.  Acceptable Hairstyle Criteria.
    a.  Hairstyles and haircuts shall present a professional and balanced 
appearance.  Appropriateness of a hairstyle shall be evaluated by its 
appearance when headgear is worn.  All headgear shall fit snugly and 
comfortably around the largest part of the head without distortion or 
excessive gaps.  Hairstyles will not interfere with the proper wearing of 
headgear, protective masks or equipment.  When headgear is worn, hair shall 
not show from under the front of the headgear, with the exception of the 
Tiara and Beret.  Hair (including bun) is not to protrude from the opening in 
the back of the ball cap.
    b.  Lopsided and extremely asymmetrical hairstyles are not authorized.  
Angled hairstyles will have no more than a 1-1/2 inch difference between the 
front and the back length of hair.  Layered hairstyles are authorized 
provided layers present a smooth and graduated appearance.
    c.  Hair length, when in uniform, may touch, but not fall below a 
horizontal line level with the lower edge of the back of the collar.
With jumper uniforms, hair may extend a maximum of 1-1/2 inches below the top 
of the jumper collar.  Long hair, including braids, shall be neatly fastened, 
pinned, or secured to the head.  When bangs are worn, they shall not extend 
below the eyebrows.  Hair length shall be sufficient to prevent the scalp 
from being readily visible (with the exception of documented medical 
conditions).
    d.  Hair bulk (minus the bun) as measured from the scalp will not exceed 
2 inches.  The bulk of the bun shall not exceed 3 inches when measured from 
the scalp and the diameter of the bun will not exceed
4 inches.  Loose ends must be tucked in and secured.
    e.  Hair, wigs, or hair extensions/pieces must be of a natural hair color 
(i.e. blonde, brunette, brown, red, gray, or black).  Hair extensions/pieces 
must match the current color of the hair.  Wigs, hairpieces and extensions 
shall be of such quality and fit so as to present a natural appearance and 
conform to the grooming guidelines listed herein.  Tints and highlights shall 
result in natural hair colors and be similar to the current base color of the 
hair.

3.  Hairstyles.  Hairstyles shall not detract from a professional appearance 
in uniform.  Styles with shaved portions of the scalp (other than the 
neckline), those with designs cut, braided, or parted into the hair, as well 
as dyed using unnatural colors are not authorized.  The unique quality and 
texture of curled, waved and straight hair are recognized.  All hairstyles 
must minimize scalp exposure.  While this list shall not be considered all 
inclusive, the following hairstyles are authorized.
    a.  Three strand braids and two strand braids (also referred to as 
twists) are authorized.  Braided hairstyles shall be conservative and conform 
to the guidelines listed herein.
    b.  Multiple braids.  Multiple braids consist of more than 2 braids and 
encompass the whole head.  When a hairstyle of multiple braids is worn, each 
braid shall be of uniform dimension, small in diameter (no more than 1/4 
inch), and tightly interwoven to present a neat, professional, well groomed 
appearance.  Foreign material (e.g., beads , decorative items) shall not be 
braided into the hair.  Multiple braids may be worn loose, or may be pulled 
straight back into a bun, within the guidelines herein.
    c.  Two individual braids.  One braid worn on each side of the head, 
uniform in dimension and no more than one inch in diameter.  Each braid 
extends from the front to the back of the head near the lower portion of the 
hair line (i.e., braids are closer to the top of the ear than the top of the 
head to prevent interference with wearing of headgear).
A single French braid may be worn starting near the top of the head and be 
braided to the end of the hair.  The end of the braid must be secured to the 
head and braid placement shall be down the middle of the back of the head.
    d.  Corn rows.  Must be in symmetrical fore and aft rows, and must be 
close to the head, leaving no hair unbraided.* They must be no larger than 
1/4 inch in diameter and show no more than approximately 1/8 inch of scalp 
between rows.  Corn row ends shall not protrude from the head.  Rows must end 
at the nape of the neck and shall be secured with rubber bands that match the 
color of the hair.  Corn rows may end in a bun conforming to the guidelines 
listed herein, if hair length permits.
    e.  Rolls.  Two individual rolls, one on each side of the head, must be 
near the lower portion of the hair line (i.e., rolls are closer to the top of 
the ear than the top of the head and will not interfere with wearing of 
headgear).  Rolls must be of uniform dimension and no more than one inch in 
diameter.

4.  Hair Accessories.  When hair accessories are worn, they must be 
consistent with the hair color.  A maximum of two small barrettes, similar to 
hair color, may be used to secure the hair to the head.
Bun accessories (used to form the bun), are authorized if completely 
concealed.  Additional hairpins, bobby pins, small rubber bands, or small 
thin fabric elastic bands may be used to hold hair in place, if necessary.  
The intent is for pinned-up hair to be styled in a manner that prevents loose 
ends from extending upward or outward from the head.
For example, when using barrettes or hairpins, hair will not extend loosely 
from the head; when hair is in a bun, all loose ends must be tucked in and 
secured.  Hair accessories shall not present a safety or foreign object 
damage hazard.  Hair nets shall not be worn unless authorized for a specific 
type of duty.  Headbands, scrunchies, combs, claws and butterfly clips, are 
examples of accessories that are not authorized; this list is not to be 
considered all inclusive.

5.  Unauthorized Hairstyles.  While this list shall not be considered all 
inclusive, the following hairstyles are not authorized:  ponytails; pigtails; 
braids that are widely spaced and/or protrude from the head; and locks.  
Locks, also called dreads, are fused or coiled strands of hair such that they 
cannot easily be combed out.

6.  Grooming Standards Exception.  During group command/unit physical 
training, commanding officers are authorized to standardize unit policy for 
the relaxation of female hair grooming standards with regard to having hair 
secured to the head (e.g., ponytails).  Hair restraining devices, if worn, 
will be consistent with the current hair color.

7.  Examples of authorized hairstyles may be viewed through the Hair Viewer  
at http://devnavy.dmaana.dma.mil/ah_online/femalehair.html.
File this NAVADMIN until revisions are incorporated into the BUPERS Directive 
CD-ROM change or U.S. Navy Uniform Regulations on the Navy Uniform Matters 
Office website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/support/uniforms
/uniformregulations/Pages/default.aspx.

8.  General questions and comments regarding this NAVADMIN should be 
addressed to the Uniform Matters Office (N131U) points of contact below:
a.  Mr. Robert Carroll, OPNAV N131U, via e-mail at 
robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil; b.  CMDCM(SW/AW) Rita Carman, via e-mail at 
rita.carman(at)navy.mil; c.  CTRC(IDW/NAC/SW/AW) Erin Piazza via e-mail at 
erin.piazza(at)navy.mil

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#8750
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

