UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 182023Z DEC 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 307/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/DEC//

SUBJ/2019 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AWARDS SOLICITATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1650.26E/06DEC17//

AMPN/NAVAL INTELLIGENCE AWARDS PROGRAM// POC/MCDANIEL/LT/OPNAV N2N6C/-/E-
MAIL:  KATHRYN.C.MCDANIEL(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Reference (a) is the Naval Intelligence Awards program that 
recognizes excellence and outstanding achievement in Naval Intelligence.  
This NAVADMIN builds on guidance provided in reference (a) and solicits 
nominations.
    a.  Rear Admiral Thomas A. Brooks Intelligence Junior Officer of the Year 
Award recognizes junior officers for their leadership, performance, special 
accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, morale, and 
welfare while serving on both sea and shore duty.  Two junior officers 
(Active or Reserve Component) will be selected, one for the sea duty category 
and one for the shore duty category.  Active and Reserve Component Naval 
Intelligence Officers (183X/683X) O-1 through O-3 are eligible.
    b.  Commander Dan F. Shanower Intelligence Specialist of the Year Award 
recognizes Intelligence Specialists for their performance, leadership, 
special accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, 
morale, and welfare.  A total of four Active or Reserve Component 
Intelligence Specialists, a junior and Senior Intelligence Specialist of the 
year for each of the sea duty and shore duty categories, will be selected.  
Active and Reserve Component Intelligence Specialists in pay grades E-1 
through E-5 are eligible to compete for the Junior Intelligence Specialist of 
the Year award.  Active and Reserve Component Intelligence Specialists in pay 
grade E-6, including those who are frocked to E-6 during eligibility period, 
are eligible to compete for the Senior Intelligence Specialist of the Year 
award.
    c.  The Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership recognizes 
leadership from deserving Active or Reserve Component officer, enlisted, or 
civilian personnel who exemplify excellence and exceptional dedication to 
duty within the Naval Intelligence community.  Two candidates will be 
selected for this award, one Active Duty or civilian candidate and one 
Reserve Component candidate.  Active and Reserve Component naval Intelligence 
Officers (183X/683X) O-4 through O-6, Intelligence CWOs (783X) CWO-3 through 
CWO-5, Intelligence Specialists E-7 through E-9, and civilians GS-13 through 
GS-15, or equivalent, are eligible.
    d.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence 
Instruction recognizes intelligence instructors who exemplify the time-
honored principles which Vice Admiral Taylor exemplified throughout his 
career (desire for professional knowledge, intellectual curiosity, 
initiative, enthusiasm, ability to command respect and motivate others, 
devotion to duty, effective communication skills, and personal and 
intellectual integrity).  Two candidates will be selected, one from the 
Information Warfare Training Command (IWTC) Virginia Beach and one from IWTC 
San Diego.  Active and Reserve Component U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps 
Service members serving as instructors, faculty, or staff at IWTC Virginia 
Beach and IWTC San Diego are eligible.
    e.  Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton Award for Leadership and Mentorship 
recognizes outstanding leadership and mentorship in the furtherance of Naval 
Intelligence performance.  There is no set number of awards to be given each 
year.  Active and Reserve Component naval Intelligence Officers (183X/683X) 
O-4 through O-6, Intelligence CWOs (783X) CWO-3 through CWO-5, and 
Intelligence Specialists E-6 through E-9 are eligible.
    f.  Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic Excellence recognizes a 
civilian or military analyst working maritime issues who exemplifies an 
exceptional work ethic and analytical expertise.  One candidate will be 
selected for this award.  Active and Reserve Component naval Intelligence 
Officers (183X/683X) O-3 through O-5, intelligence CWOs (783X) CWO-2 through 
CWO-5, and civilians GS-12 through GS-14, or equivalent, are eligible.  
Nominees must have at least 10 years of experience in the field of maritime 
intelligence analysis and be currently analytically active.

2.  Submission requirements are outlined in reference (a).  The eligibility 
period for all intelligence awards is 1 January 2018 to
31 December 2018.

3.  Submission instructions.  With two exceptions below, the nominees current 
command must forward all award nomination packages to 
kathryn.c.mcdaniel(at)navy.mil and michael.saunders(at)navy.mil via encrypted 
e-mail.  All e-mails must have the award name and the last name of the 
nominee in the subject line.
    a.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership Reserve Component 
nominations:  Forward all packages to Commander, Naval Information Force 
Reserve via encrypted email to YN1 Amber Oniha and YN2 Dexter Correll at 
NIFR_ALL_AWARDS(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence 
Instruction nominations:  Forward all packages to respective IWTC POCs via 
encrypted e-mail to Mr. Larry Banks, larry.banks(at)navy.mil (IWTC Virginia 
Beach) or Mr. Adam Thompson, adam.d.thompson(at)navy.mil (IWTC San Diego).

4.  All packages must be submitted no later than 15 March 2019.

5.  Reference (a) covers recognition details for each award.  For any 
questions contact the message POC.

6.  The nomination template is posted to the Navy Information Warfare 
Outreach page on milSuite at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC
-244835 (Common Access Card e-mail certificate login required).  Reference 
(a) and the award nomination template do not require the use of Social 
Security Numbers or other sensitive Personally Identifiable Information 
(PII).  Commands should avoid including unnecessary PII in nomination 
packages.

7.  Incomplete packages or packages failing to meet all guidance as outlined 
in this message and reference (a) will not be considered.  Late submissions 
will not be accepted.

8.  Classified nomination packages will not be accepted.

9.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

