UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 061420Z MAR 17

FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 55/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CHINFO/MAR//

SUBJ/ANNUAL CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FROM QUALIFIED NAVY PERSONNEL FOR
THE ADVANCED MILITARY VISUAL JOURNALISM TRAINING PROGRAM//
POC/Mr. Jeff Elliott/CHINFO OI-81/LOC: WASHINGTON DC/
TEL: COMM: (703) 692-4754/DSN: 222-4754//
EMAIL: jeff.elliott(at)navy.mil//

RMKS/1.  The Navy is soliciting applications from Mass Communication
Specialists (MC) for the Advanced Military Visual Journalism (AMVJ)
training program for academic year 2017-2018.  The program offers
two courses of study:  Photojournalism (Course number S-400-2013)
and Motion Media (Course number S-400-2014).  Class reporting date
for both courses is tentatively scheduled for 31 July 2017 with a
projected graduation date of 10 May 2018.

2.  Applications must be submitted electronically and received no
later than 31 March 2017.  Applications must include the following:
    a.  An essay explaining why they are interested in the AMVJ
program.
    b.  A photography portfolio or motion media show reel
demonstrating sufficient technical ability to successfully complete
the course.  Applicants are encouraged to submit both a portfolio
and a show reel.  Receipt of both will automatically allow the
applicant to be considered for a seat in either program.

3.  Prior to acceptance to the program and distribution of orders,
applicants must:
    a.  Be approved to reenlist or extend in the MC Rating through
June 2021.
    b.  Not reach high year tenure before June 2021.
    c.  Have a command endorsed 1306.
    d.  Be within six months of rotation or obtain approval to
transfer without a relief.
    e.  Be within physical fitness assessment standards to include no
more than one PFA failure in the past four years.
    f.  Not have any civil or Non Judicial Punishment violations in
the past three years.
    g.  Be eligible for a Secret clearance.

4.  Course scope, prerequisites and portfolio/show reel requirements
are found in the CANTRAC, which can be accessed via the professional
development section of the Navy Education and Training Command
website at https://www.netc.navy.mil/Development.aspx.  Click on the
link at the top of the list, Catalog of Navy Training Courses
(CANTRAC),
and search for course information using either Course Identification
Number listed in paragraph 1 above.

5.  Parent commands are responsible for eligibility verification of
its candidates and submission of applicable waivers.  Waivers of
prerequisites, (e.g., TIS, PG, TOS, etc.) will be considered on a
case-by-case basis.  Commanding Officers should address applicants
maturity, ability to work independently, financial security, and
academic ability when recommending a nominee, particularly when
requesting waivers.

6.  Because selection to the program requires a Permanent Change of
Station transfer, applicants require completion of a two-year
minimum time on station at current command to be eligible to
apply.  Applicants currently under orders may apply and will be
considered on a case-by-case basis.  Applicants who have executed
orders and are en route to their next command are not
eligible.  Primary consideration will be given to applicants with a
projected rotation date in Fiscal Year 2017.  Navy Personnel Command
has the final approval prior to final selection.

7.  The selection board will convene in early April 2017.  Selectees
will be notified via Naval message not later than 28 April 2017.

8.  Point of contact is Mr. Jeff Elliott who can be reached by email
at jeff.elliott(at)navy.mil or by phone at (703) 692-4754.

9.  Request widest dissemination.

10.  Released by RDML D. E. Cutler, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
