RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2822121-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 092121Z OCT 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01500//

NAVADMIN 264/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//
SUBJ/FY-14 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for execution of the FY-14 General 
Military Training (GMT) program.
2.  GMT is defined as non-occupational general training, periodically 
required for all uniformed Navy personnel.  A detailed review of existing 
requirements identified 23 separate topics which meet the definition of GMT.
3.  There is an ongoing effort to streamline or eliminate administrative 
burdens on the fleet, allowing more time to focus on mission readiness.  In 
support of this effort, a GMT program review is underway and a revision to 
the GMT instruction is nearing completion.  The intent of the GMT instruction 
revision is to provide clear communication of requirements, establish an 
annual review process for each topic, and create a framework to validate non- 
occupational training requirements, eliminate inefficiencies, and improve the 
overall effectiveness of the GMT program.
4.  For FY-14, all commands are required to provide face-to-face GMT training 
on the following topics:
    a.  Alcohol Abuse Prevention and Control
    b.  Equal Opportunity and Grievance Procedures
    c.  Hazing Policy and Prevention
    d.  Personal Financial Management
    e.  Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Awareness
    f.  Sexual Harassment and Grievance Procedures
    g.  Stress Management
    h.  Suicide Awareness and Prevention These topics are designated 
"Category One" topics.  Category One topics must be conducted via face-to-
face, instructor-led training sessions provided at the command level.  
Commands shall utilize senior leadership, command training teams, or 
collateral duty officers/chief petty officers to conduct Category One GMT 
training.
Local subject matter experts may also assist.  This is an opportunity for 
command leadership to have a frank and deliberate discussion on these topics.  
Standardized training materials are provided as downloadable files from the 
Personal Development GMT page on the Navy Knowledge Online (NKO) webpage at 
www.nko.navy.mil.  Command leadership may tailor the standardized training 
material to ensure relevancy to their specific audience.
5.  The remaining required GMT topics are "Category Two".  Category Two 
topics may be completed via Navy e-Learning or through face-to-face, command-
delivered training at the discretion of the unit commander.  Category Two 
topics for FY-14 are:
    a.  Anger Management
    b.  Antiterrorism/Force Protection
    c.  Combating Trafficking in Persons
    d.  Counterintelligence Awareness and Reporting
    e.  Domestic Violence Prevention and Reporting
    f.  Drug Abuse Prevention and Control
    g.  Fraternization Awareness and Prevention
    h.  Information Assurance
    i.  Operational Risk Management
    j.  Operational Security
    k.  Physical Readiness
    l.  Privacy and Personally Identifiable Information Awareness
    m.  Records Management
    n.  Sexual Health and Responsibility
    o.  Tobacco Use Prevention and Cessation Standardized Category Two 
training material is available for download and/or available via Navy 
eLearning as identified on the NKO GMT page.
While an online Counterintelligence course is available, the preferred 
completion method is face-to-face training from a local NCIS agent.
6.  In order to allow sufficient time to complete the GMT program review, 
formulate program change proposals, and implement the approved changes, 
completion of Category Two GMT topics is waived for FY-14 except for the 
following topics which must be completed:
    a.  Antiterrorism/Force Protection
    b.  Combating Trafficking in Persons
    c.  Counterintelligence Awareness and Reporting
    d.  Information Assurance
    e.  Operational Security
    f.  Records Management
7.  A GMT calendar, available on the NKO GMT page, was developed for
FY-14 with recommended training delivery months to coincide with Navywide 
training themes.  The goal is to increase topic visibility, improve overall 
training effectiveness, and set the stage for future GMT topic 
consolidations.
8.  Training completion shall be documented by all commands via Fleet 
Training Management Planning System (FLTMPS).  While individually- completed 
web-based training is automatically tracked, command- delivered training 
topic completion must be recorded in FLTMPS via learning event completion 
forms.  Detailed instructions are available online at 
https://ntmpsweb.ntmps.navy.mil/fltmps or by contacting the support office at 
(866-438-2898).
9.  Point of contact is Mr. Lyman Watts, GMT Program Manager at
(757) 492-0763/DSN 492.  For additional information, contact the Center for 
Personal and Professional Development via email at gmt.
distribution(at)navy.mil.
10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//
BT
#0000
NNNN

