UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 261702Z JUL 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 166/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/FY-17 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/3SEP15//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/081342ZEP15//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1500.22H, GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING PROGRAM.
REF B IS NAVADMIN 213/15, FY-16 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN promulgates General Military Training (GMT) 
requirements for FY-17 and should be read in its entirety.  Building on the 
major changes implemented in FY-16 through references (a) and (b), this years 
program continues to reduce mandatory training requirements for FY-17 GMT and 
places additional control at the discretion of local command leadership in 
determining what training is required and how often it must be accomplished.  
This additional flexibility is particularly relevant in FY-17, as Navy 
expects to see an increase in one time, all hands training requirements 
outside of the GMT program (provided via separate correspondence).

2.  The following lessons are included in the Standardized Core Training 
program and are mandatory for FY-17:
    a.  Required face-to-face, instructor led sessions provided at the 
command level.  Commands must utilize senior leadership to deliver this 
training and are encouraged to leverage local subject matter experts and 
collateral duty officers to compliment standardized training content:
        (1) Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Awareness
        (2) Equal Opportunity/Sexual Harassment/Grievance Procedures (EO/SH);
            (a) Department of Defense (DoD) has directed that commands 
deliver SH training, when practicable, at the same time as SAPR training.
            (b) If coincident delivery of this lesson is not practicable, 
separate EO/SH training delivery is still required under this category.
        (3) Suicide Prevention.
    b.  These topics are also required for FY-17, utilizing standardized 
training products.  They may be completed face-to-face (where an available 
lesson format supports) or through individual completion of the courses 
listed on the Navy Knowledge Online (NKO)/Navy eLearning courses GMT Web 
Page:
        (1) Combating Trafficking in Persons General Awareness;
        (2) Antiterrorism Level I Awareness;
        (3) Cyber Security Awareness;
        (4) Counterintelligence Awareness and Reporting;
        (5) Operations Security (OPSEC);
        (6) Privacy and Personally Identifiable Information (PII); and
        (7) Records Management.

3.  The following lessons are part of the Navy Command Assigned Readiness 
Enhancement training program for FY-17.  In alignment with the fleet-centered 
leader development approach outlined in CNOs A Design for Maintaining 
Maritime Superiority, all Command-Assigned Readiness-Enhancement (CARE) 
topics for FY-17 will be delivered to the appropriate audience at an 
appropriate periodicity as determined by the local command.  Delivery may 
include locally-generated content or utilize standardized products as 
desired.  Commands may also consider presentations by outside organizations 
(e.g., law enforcement outreach, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, Fleet and 
Family Support Center) commonly given at safety standdowns or pre/post 
deployment briefings, to be part of CARE training.  There is no minimum 
periodicity associated with these topics, but commands are encouraged to 
judiciously exercise this flexibility to ensure the right people receive the 
training when appropriate based on command schedule and as situational 
requirements dictate:
        (1) Alcohol, Drugs, and Tobacco Awareness;
        (2) Stress Management;
        (3) Domestic Violence Prevention and Reporting;
        (4) Sexual Health and Responsibility;
        (5) Physical Readiness;
        (6) Hazing Policy and Prevention;
        (7) Personal Financial Management;
        (8) Operational Risk Management; and
        (9) Energy Policy.

4.  We will continue our efforts to work with DoD and Secretary of the Navy 
to update relevant instructions, pursue additional consolidation, and provide 
more effective and efficient training options.  The availability of mobile 
applications that may be loaded onto personal electronic devices (e.g., smart 
phones, tablets, etc.) and used to complete certain GMT lessons at a more 
convenient time continue to grow.  There are currently four GMT mobile apps 
available - Domestic Violence Prevention and Reporting, OPSEC, Records 
Management, and PII), respectively.  Download information is available via 
the Navy’s official GMT Web page, which remains the best resource for 
information related to the GMT program.  It is a living document updated 
regularly and remains the primary resource for access to training materials, 
any changes to related training requirements, and revised training 
availability.  To access this web page, go to NKO at www.nko.navy.mil.  Once 
logged into NKO, select the GMT option under the Personal Development menu 
item to access the Navy’s GMT page.

5.  Individually completed web-based training is automatically recorded and 
tracked in the individuals electronic training jacket. Command delivered 
training completion is recorded in the Fleet Management and Planning System 
(FLTMPS) via the learning event completion form.  Detailed instructions are 
available online at ntmpsweb.ncdc.navy.mil/fltmps, by contacting the support 
office at (866) 438-2898, and posted on the NKO GMT page.  Send questions or 
feedback via email to gmt.distribution(at)navy.mil.

6.  This NAVADMIN is canceled for record purposes on
30 September 2017.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
