UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 041322Z OCT 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 245/17

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL DISTANCE LEARNING GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMS 
AVAILABLE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2018//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-
focused masters degrees and graduate certificates to develop quantitative 
skills and competencies, producing graduates with the disciplined analytical 
approach to problem solving that is essential to an effective, dynamic 
defense enterprise.  NPS is dedicated to providing relevant, high quality 
education to empower the next generation of leadership in the Department of 
Defense (DoD).  A variety of delivery methods are utilized to expand learning 
beyond the traditional classroom.

2.  NPS distance learning (DL) programs are part-time programs (usually 12 to 
24 months) for military officers, DoD civilians, and a small number of larger 
DoD contractor personnel who are unable to attend NPS residential graduate 
programs.  Graduate certificates are also available to qualified enlisted 
personnel.  DoD contractor personnel applications will be considered for 
admission on a space-available basis.  Student application forms are 
available at: https://my.nps.edu/web/admissions.

3.  Enrollment requirements.  In addition to the application process, 
students that do not fall under the mission-funded category must be sponsored 
by their command or employer.  All prospective DL students must have a signed 
Participation Agreement for NPS DL programs.
     a.  All active duty Navy and Marine Corps officers who are academically 
eligible are mission-funded, therefore there is no tuition cost to the 
officer.  U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) officers will apply through the USMC DL 
program as advertised in the corresponding annual MARADMIN message.
     b.  All other prospective DL students must have a Memorandum of 
Agreement (MOA) and a funding document in place in order to be enrolled in 
any NPS DL program.
        (1) For Navy DoD agencies, the MOA is Department of the Navy 7600A 
form and the funding document is NAVCOMPT 2275 or 2276A.
        (2) For non-Navy DoD agencies, the MOA is Financial Management 
Standardization (FMS) 7600A form and the funding document is, DD Form 448, 
Military Interdepartmental purchase Request.
        (3) For non-DoD Federal agencies, the FMS 7600A form and the funding 
document is FMS 7600B.  The FMS 7600A/B serves as the standard form to be 
used government-wide for all reimbursable agreements at the trading partner 
level, including, but not limited to:  agreements between agencies, 
agreements within agencies, grant-related agreements and assisted 
acquisitions.

4.  The following DL programs are available for Academic Year 2018:
    a.  DL masters degree programs consist of one or two classes per quarter 
for eight or nine quarters.  Check each program webpage for any prerequisites 
or eligibility requirements for enrollment as they may vary.  Copies of 
transcripts and participation agreements are required to support the 
application process for all degree programs.

Curriculum number:
311 - Systems Engineering Non-Resident Masters
359 - Master in Human Systems Integration
363 - Master of Systems Analysis
379 - Master of Cost Estimating and Analysis
535 - Engineering Acoustics-Masters
692 - Master Security Studies (Homeland Security and Defense)
721 - Joint Executive Systems Engineering Management-Masters
805/807 - Executive Master of Business Administration (Mil/Civ)
835 - Master Contract Management
836 - Master Program Management

    b.  NPS offers the following programs that build on Navy Advanced 
Technical Education schools and leverage the academic work in these schools 
and require reduced course work, typically one course per quarter for five to 
eight quarters.  

Curriculum number:
312 - Aviation Systems Engineering Program
571 - ReactorsMechanical/Electrical Engineering
572 - Mechanical Engineering for Nuclear Trained Officers
592 - Electrical and Computer Engineering Degree Programs
613 - Master of Science Engineering Science (AE) Degree Program for United 
States Naval Test Pilot School graduates

    c.  DL graduate certificates consist of a series of four graduate level 
courses delivered over four quarters designed to provide enhanced knowledge 
and skills in specific subject areas. Check each program webpage for any 
prerequisites or eligibility requirements for enrollment as they may vary.  

Curriculum number:
211 - Advanced Acquisition Program Certificate
232 - Lead Systems Integrator Certificate Program
235 - Combat Systems Science and Engineering Certificate
240 - Healthcare Modeling and Simulation
242 - Certificate in Reliability and Maintainability Engineering
256 - Cyber Security Fundamentals
262 - Human Systems Integration Certificate
268 - Data Science
271 - Network Operations and Technology-Operations (NWOT-OPS)
272 - Network Operations and Technology-Technology (NWOT-TECH)
273 - Space Systems Certificate
274 - Anti-Submarine Warfare Certificate
281 - Systems Analysis Certificate
282 - Systems Engineering Certificate
287 - Digital Communications Certificate
288 - Cyber Warfare
289 - Cost Estimating and Analysis Certificate
290 - Signal Processing Certificate
291 - Electric Ship Power Systems Certificate
292 - Electronic Warfare (EW) Engineer Certificate
293 - Journeyman EW Engineer Certificate
294 - Senior EW Engineer Certificate
295 - Network Engineering Certificate
296 - Cyber Systems Certificate
297 - Wireless Network Security Certificate

5.  All officers who enroll in a NPS DL masters degree will incur a 2 to 3 
year service obligation upon completion/withdrawal, and all who enroll in a 
NPS certificate program will incur a 1 year service obligation upon 
completion/withdrawal as outlined in enclosure 7 of OPNAVINST 1520.23C.  
Textbooks, education materials, and all similar expenses will be borne by the 
student.  Any officer who has previously received a Navy funded graduate 
degree will have to complete a second funded degree waiver request.  Program 
commencement is subject to the availability of funds.

6.  For more information regarding NPS DL programs, visit the NPS homepage at 
http://www.nps.edu/ and reference the curriculum/certificate number above 
when using the search engine.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
