
UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 112031Z FEB 19
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 036/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CHINFO WASHINGTON DC/CHINFO/FEB//

SUBJ/ANNUAL CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FROM QUALIFIED NAVY PERSONNEL FOR
THE ADVANCED MILITARY VISUAL JOURNALISM TRAINING PROGRAM 2019//

POC/Mr. Jeff Elliott/CHINFO OI-81/LOC: WASHINGTON DC/
TEL: COMM: (703) 692-4754/DSN: 222-4754//
EMAIL: jeff.elliott(at)navy.mil//

RMKS/1.  The Navy is soliciting applications from Mass Communication 
Specialists (MC) for the Advanced Military Visual Journalism (AMVJ) training 
program for academic year 2019-2020.  The program offers two courses of 
study:  Photojournalism (Course number S-400-2013) which earns NEC A08A and 
Motion Media (Course number S-400-2014) which earns NEC A05A.  Class 
reporting date for both courses is tentatively scheduled for 29 July 2019 
with a projected graduation date of 11 May 2020.

2.  Applications must be submitted no later than 8 March 2019.  For complete 
directions and guidance for electronic submission, contact POC listed above 
and in paragraph 7.  Applications must include the following:
    a.  A command endorsement on letterhead summarizing the candidate's 
qualifications, a statement certifying the portfolio is the sole work of the 
applicant and recommendation for acceptance in the program.  Parent commands 
are responsible for eligibility verification for endorsed candidates and 
submission of applicable waivers.  Waivers of prerequisites, (e.g., TIS, PG, 
TOS, etc.) will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  Commanding Officers 
should address applicant's maturity, ability to work independently, financial 
security, and academic ability when recommending a nominee, particularly when 
requesting waivers.
    b.  An essay explaining why a candidate is interested in the AMVJ 
program.  Essay should include motivations, influences, expectations, and 
post-course desires.
    c.  A portfolio demonstrating sufficient technical ability to 
successfully complete the course.  The portfolio requirements for the 
Advanced Military Visual Journalism-Navy program closely mirror the portfolio 
requirements for the Navy Strategic Communicator of the Year award of the 
Russell Egnor Navy Media Awards.  An applicant must submit a portfolio with 
communication products from across the full-spectrum of media disciplines.  
Candidates must submit a portfolio consisting of eight examples of their 
work.  Portfolio must contain the following: one writing product from the
Individual Writing category; two video products from the Individual Video 
category; four photo products from the Individual Photo category (must have 
one picture story and one portrait personality and two photos from the any 
other Individual Photo category); and one graphic design product from any of 
the Individual Graphic Design categories.  Each product must follow the rules 
listed in the category descriptions found within the standard operating
procedure for the CY 2018 Navy Media Awards.  Applicants are required to 
provide a biography and digital full length in NSUs of themselves as part of 
the submission process.  The biography and photo are not part of the 
selection process but will be used to identify and introduce the selectees to 
the faculty and staff at Syracuse University if selected. Contact Mr. Jeff 
Elliott directly for the submission process.

3.  Prior to acceptance to the program and distribution of orders,
applicants must:
    a.  Be approved to reenlist or extend in the MC Rating through June 2023.
    b.  Not reach high year tenure before June 2023.
    c.  Have a command endorsed 1306.
    d.  Be within six months of rotation or obtain approval to transfer 
without a relief.
    e.  Be within physical fitness assessment standards to include no PFA 
failures in the past three years.
    f.  Not have any civil or Non Judicial Punishment violations in the past 
three years.
    g.  Be eligible for a Secret clearance.

4.  Course scope, prerequisites and portfolio requirements are found
in CANTRAC, which can be accessed via the professional development section of 
the Navy Education and Training Command website at 
https://www.netc.navy.mil/Development.aspx.  Click on the link at the top of 
the list, Catalog of Navy Training Courses (CANTRAC), and search for course 
information using either Course Identification Number listed in paragraph 1 
above.

5.  Because selection to the program requires a Permanent Change of
Station transfer, applicants require completion of a two-year
minimum time on station at current command to be eligible to
apply.  Applicants currently under orders may apply and will be
considered on a case-by-case basis.  Applicants who have executed
orders and are en route to their next command are not eligible.  Primary 
consideration will be given to applicants with a projected rotation date in 
Fiscal Year 2019.  Navy Personnel Command has the final approval prior to 
final selection.  Applicants are reminded that graduates earn NEC A05A or NEC 
A08A, dependent upon program attended, and will be detailed to A05A or A08A 
billets. Both NECs are predominately sea duty billets.

6.  The selection board will convene in mid March 2019.  Selectees
will be notified via Naval message not later than 12 April 2019.

7.  Point of contact is Mr. Jeff Elliott who can be reached by email
at jeff.elliott(at)navy.mil or by phone at (703) 692-4754.

8.  Request widest dissemination.

9.  Released by CAPT G. L. Hicks, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

