UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 211250Z OCT 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 235/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/NAVY PAY AND PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS//

REF/A/LTR/NAVMAC/13SEP16/NOTAL//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVMAC LTR SUBJ:  ESTABLISHMENT OF NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION 
CODE 95AD  COMMAND PAY AND PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATOR SER 10/313.//

RMKS/1.  The Navy has an interest to ensure a Sailor focused Pay and 
Personnel Support System is highly-trained, auditable, and enhanced by 
today’s technology.

2.  During the past year, The Navy Pay and Personnel Support System have been 
reviewed by a Special Joint Task Force and a number of actions have been 
identified that will improve the quality of pay and personnel services 
provided to Sailors, such as:
    a.  Improving training for pay and personnel professionals.
    b.  Assigning more military personnel to Personnel Support Detachments 
(PSD) in Continental United States (CONUS) locations.
    c.  Improving Sailor and command self-service capabilities.
    d.  Implementing organizational changes that will produce more 
opportunities for civilian upward mobility.

3.  The following specific actions have recently been put in place:
    a.  Revamping the Command Pass Coordinator (CPC) position, renamed as 
Command Pay and Personnel Administrator (CPPA), to include more defined 
responsibilities and enhanced training.  All Navy commands and Navy 
detachments with an independent unit identification code, whether that 
command is located in one geographical area or spread through a geographical 
region, will have at least one CPPA to ensure command level accountability, 
auditability, and full engagement with their supporting PSD.  The partnership 
between commands and their supporting PSDs is the key to providing Sailors 
with accurate and timely pay and personnel support.  The Office of the Chief 
of Naval Operations (N1) along with U.S. Fleet Forces Command and U.S. 
Pacific Command are developing metrics to measure and assess commands on 
timeliness and transaction execution accuracy rate of CPPA functions.
    b.  Establishing a Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) code of 95AD, CPPA, 
to ensure that Navy personnel are properly trained and certified in the pay 
and personnel policies and procedures. Civilian personnel currently serving 
as a CPC are also required to complete the CPPA courses.  Reference (a) lists 
the NEC requirements as the following:

        (1) Navy eLearning course completions with exams.
        (2) On the job training.
        (3) Designation letter from the commanding officer (CO) or officer in 
charge (OIC).
    c.  Conducting monthly CPPA engagements, ashore and afloat, which are 
also available through distance communication medians for commands not 
geographically located near their servicing PSD.  The engagement identifies 
the resources available to assist CPPAs in performing their duties, provides 
facilitated CPPA training of Navy approved training aids, provides guidance 
and clarification on specific pay and personnel topics, and presents the 
opportunity to address local issues.
    d.  Future Initiatives:
        (1) Implement changes in PSD workforce management to maximize system 
and process effectiveness.  This will include adding billets for military pay 
clerks (active component and Full-Time Support) at the PSD.  Billet growth 
will also increase detailing opportunities at CONUS and Outside CONUS PSDs.  
The wider range of positions will enhance knowledge and experience across the 
PSDs and enable Navy to better retain skilled personnel.
        (2) Implement a more efficient and direct interface within the Navy 
Standard Integrated Personnel System in order to better leverage current 
personnel management tools.

4.  The design of the Navy’s Pay and Personnel Support System aligns with the 
Navy’s Design for maintaining maritime superiority as it allows for fully 
integrated and transparent data and analytics, increased career choices and 
flexibility, expanded family support, and tailored learning.  The initiatives 
described above are intended to help move the Navy pay and personnel support 
forward to meet Sailor expectations.

5.  COs and OICs will continue to contribute to the success of the Navy’s Pay 
and Personnel Support System.  Success requires leadership engagement at all 
levels to ensure that Sailors and their families receive their pay and 
entitlements in a timely and accurate manner.  Whether at a PSD, PSD Afloat, 
or on independent operations with a carrier, fixed wing aircraft, or nuclear 
platforms, COs and OICs must ensure that timely and auditable processes are 
in place, and that all pay and military pay clerks receive the most up-to-
date training.

6.  Point of contact is CAPT Steven Friloux, Navy Pay and Personnel Support 
Center, at (901) 874-3343/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
steven.friloux(at)navy.mil.

7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
