UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 262035Z JAN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 022/15

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-16 CHIEF JUDGE OF THE NAVY AND ASSISTANT JUDGE 
ADVOCATE GENERAL OF THE NAVY SELECTION BOARD//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the notice of convening date for subject 
selection board as 18 March 2015.  The following list indicates the eligible 
captain's name, active-duty list number, and date of rank of the senior and 
junior officers on the active duty list in the competitive category of Navy 
Judge Advocate General's Corps, who are eligible for consideration as of the 
date of this NAVADMIN.
Sr Eligible * Modzelewski, M.   010214-50  1 JUN 03
Jr Eligible * Boland, W.        012543-00  1 JAN 12

2.  Only eligible officers may communicate directly with a selection board.  
Correspondence must arrive NLT than the day before the convening date of the 
board and shall be addressed to:   President, FY-16 Active Duty Assistant 
Judge Advocate General of the Navy Selection Board #109.  To check on receipt 
of your package, go to http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyofficer/Pages/default.aspx and enter the customer 
Service center link (check on your letter to the board) or contact the 
Customer Service Center at (866) 827-5672.  Written communication may call to 
the attention of the board any matter concerning himself/herself that the 
officer considers important.  The written communication must be in accordance 
with MILPERSMAN article 1420-010 and may include, as enclosures, 
correspondence from any individual concerning the eligible officer.  
Correspondence not originated by the eligible officer, including endorsements 
to the officer's letter, and letters written on behalf of that officer, must 
contain a written acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she 
desires that such correspondence be presented to the board.  Correspondence 
without such acknowledgment is considered third party correspondence and will 
be returned.  Classified correspondence will not be accepted.

3.  The CSCSELBOARD@NAVY.MIL mailbox account is capable of receiving 
encrypted correspondence IAW DoD policy.  If you are sending your board 
package from a non NMCI network (BUMED.mil, USMC.mil, etc), please visit 
https://dod411.gds.disa.mil to download the required mailbox Certificate.  To 
download the "Cert" (please note, you MUST be using MS Outlook with a CAC 
reader, including "ActivClient" software and have Internet Explorer or 
Netscape 7), go to https://dod411.gds.disa.mil, type CSCSELBOARD@NAVY.MIL in 
the "E-Mail address* field, then click "Search."  Click the "CSC" link under 
"Last Name."  Click on the link "Download Certificate(s) as vCard.* Click 
"Software Certificate for CSCSELBOARD@NAVY.MIL.* Click the "Open" button for 
the File Download popup.  The Certificate will then open. Click "Save and 
Close."  The Certificate is then saved to the profile and can be used to send 
your encrypted e-mail.

4.  Eligible officers not wanting to be considered by this board may submit a 
request indicating the desire that their record not be considered.  Officers 
submitting requests not to be considered will not be eligible and their 
records will not be presented to the board for consideration.

5.  The following officers are not eligible and their records will not be 
presented to the board for consideration:  any officer who has an approved 
voluntary separation/retirement request, submitted by the officer and not 
required by policy, as of the convening date of the board; or was recommended 
by a previous selection board for appointment as Assistant Judge Advocate 
General of the Navy, Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, Chief Defense Counsel for Military Commissions (pursuant to section 
156 of Title 10 U.S. code), or Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
