UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 231227Z JUN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 144/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR SEPTEMBER 2015//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/061710ZAUG07//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the
September 2015 distance learning Executive Master of Business
Administration (EMBA) program.  The program will be taught in the
Fleet concentration areas (Norfolk, Washington, DC, and San Diego)
and other eligible sites.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a
24-month, fully-funded, part-time graduate program focused on
resource management.  The program prepares middle to senior grade
active-duty officers, lieutenant commander (select) and above, whose
career paths do not support in-resident graduate education.

3.  The program begins with a one-week temporary additional duty
(TAD) resident program at the NPS campus in Monterey, CA.  Official
travel orders and funding for TAD travel will be provided by the
student's parent command.  If command funding is not available,
students may fund their own travel and utilize no-cost TAD orders
from their command.  During resident week, students will take a
two-credit hour course in managing teams.  Additionally, students
will interact with the faculty who will be teaching throughout the
program and master the skills required to learn via distance
learning methods.  The NPS program is scheduled for the week of
31 August 2015 thru 4 September 2015.  A block of rooms have been
reserved at Navy Lodge, Monterey, CA for attendees.  Optionally,
the NPS bachelor officer quarters on campus may be utilized on a
space available basis.  Transportation by bus will be provided to
and from the Navy Lodge for daily classes on the NPS campus to
minimize TAD costs.

4.  NPS faculty use video teleconferencing (VTC), internet, and
other distance learning modes to teach the follow-on courses.
Students meet in VTC-capable classrooms once a week during normal
duty hours for six to seven hours of instruction, taking two classes
per quarter for eight quarters.  Students enter the EMBA program as
a cohort and will take all courses together as a learning team
(minimum 5 personnel).  All students must recognize that attending
classes with their respective cohort is mandatory to complete the
degree requirements.  VTC instruction will begin during the week of
28 September 2015.

5.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a
regionally accredited four-year college or university, academic
profile code of 245 (2.6 grade point average or higher on a 4 point
scale) and 2 pre-calculus courses with a grade average of B or
better.  A commanding officer endorsement letter is required to
participate in the program.  Department head or similar mid-level
management experience and strong potential for promotion are
preferred.  Participants must have a projected rotation date no
earlier than September 2017.  The Graduate Management Admission Test
is not required.

6.  Graduates will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the Navy
subspecialty code 3100P, Financial Management  Defense Focus.  Per
reference (a), officers participating in this program must agree to
remain on active duty following completion of graduate studies for a
period of three years.  This obligation is discharged concurrently
with any other service obligation already incurred.  This agreement
does not obligate the Navy to retain the officer on active duty.

7.  Officers interested in the EMBA program can visit the NPS EMBA
home page for detailed eligibility and application process
information.  Deadline for the application process is no later than
17 July 2015.  The EMBA program homepage can be found here:
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Schools/GSBPP/Academics/EMBA.html#DONM

8.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office at
(831) 656-2562/DSN 756 or via e-mail at emba(at)nps.edu.  Fax number
is (831) 656-3630/DSN 756.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or
30 March 2016, whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
