UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 181952Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 224/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/SEP//

SUBJ/CNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET//

RMKS/1.  I am honored to be your next Chief of Naval Operations.

2.  I'd first like to thank Admiral Jon Greenert and his wife Darleen for their magnificent service to our 
country for over 40 years, and especially for their role in leading our Navy these past four years.  They 
have been tireless and superb advocates for our Sailors and their families, our Navy, and our Nation.

3.  I hold some core beliefs about our Navy that guide me.  The Naval profession is founded on bonds of 
trust and confidence - between us and the American people, and amongst us as members of our Navy 
team.

4.  The Navy must be at sea, underway.  We must be present in key areas of the world protecting 
American interests - enabling access to international markets and trade, responding to crises, and 
providing security.

5.  We must be able to operate seamlessly with others.  Our premier partner is the United States Marine 
Corps.  We also operate closely with our fellow services, and our allies and partners.

6.  The muscle and bones of the Navy are our ships, submarines and aircraft - highly capable, exercised 
daily, well equipped, and ready to operate at sea and far from home.

7.  But the heart and soul of the Navy is you, our people.  Every day around the world, you can be found 
on, under, and over the sea.
You are smart, resourceful, committed Americans who want to be part of something special - to serve 
our country and to be part of a high-performing team.  You are rightly proud of what you do and you are 
a formidable force.

8.  I believe in the strength that flows from our families.
The Richardsons are a typical Navy family - 20 moves, dozens of schools, stationed all around the 
country and overseas.  Today, the Richardson family, like all Navy families, remains strong and ready to 
serve our nation.

9.  America sends us their sons and daughters, their brothers and sisters, their fathers and mothers, to 
join our team and go to sea with us - if needed, into harm's way.  In return for that commitment, we 
must provide a positive and respectful environment where we can all thrive and reach our highest 
potential.

10.  Finally, the American people demand, as they should, that we execute our mission in a prudent and 
responsible way, worthy of their confidence in us.

11.  It is a privilege to work with, and especially to lead, such a capable and creative team.  Despite 
growing challenges and significant strains, you continue to go to sea to do what must be done today, 
and you create and innovate in order to prevail tomorrow.  You learn faster, adapt quicker, and fight 
harder than any adversary.

12.  The bottom line is that in any situation, in any competition, and certainly in any fight, America 
expects that their Navy will find a way to win - and we will.

13.  Thank you for your leadership and service to keep our nation secure.  I am extremely proud to be 
part of this amazing team.  I will give everything I have to honor and strengthen the bonds of trust and 
confidence we share, and that make our Navy the strongest that has ever sailed the seas.

14.  Released by ADM J. M. Richardson, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
