UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 101501Z JUL 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 167/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/FY-18 SENIOR ENLISTED CONTINUATION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/1MAY15//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/5OCT15//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1610.1D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.  REF B 
IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1160-120, HIGH YEAR TENURE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the FY-18 Senior Enlisted 
Continuation Board (SECB) on 4 December 2017.  The SECB will carefully 
consider, without prejudice or partiality, the record of every eligible 
candidate and not select for continuation those Sailors whose service is no 
longer in the best interest of the Navy. Among many factors reviewed, 
documented misconduct and/or substandard performance within the past three 
years will be a consideration in determining whether to continue a board-
eligible Sailor.  Examples include, but are not limited to, receipt of an 
evaluation with an individual trait grade of 2.0 or below or any documented 
circumstance related to performance that resulted in a Sailors inability to 
perform in the rating or required duties (e.g., loss of a security clearance 
in a rating that requires a member to maintain continuous eligibility).

2.  Eligibility.  Active Component (AC) and Full-Time Support (FTS) E7-E9 
personnel with at least 19 years of active service computed from their active 
duty service date to 31 August 2017 and three years time-in-rate (TIR) as of 
31 August 2017, and E7-E9 Selected Reserve (SELRES) and Voluntary Training 
Unit (VTU) personnel with at least 20 years of qualifying service as of 31 
August 2017 and three years TIR as of 31 August 2017 will be considered by 
the SECB.
    a.  All personnel who, as of 17 November 2017, have either a Navy 
Personnel Command (NPC) approved request to transfer to the Fleet Reserve or 
an approved request to retire on or before 1 September 2018 will be exempt 
from the SECB.  All requests must have final authorization, not a message of 
intent.  Approved requests will not be modified subsequent to 17 November 
2017.  Personnel meeting all other eligibility requirements who have an NPC 
approved transfer to the Fleet Reserve/retirement/Retired Reserve (with or 
without pay) after 1 September 2018 will be considered by the SECB.
    b.  Personnel selected for chief warrant officer (CWO) by the Limited 
Duty Officer/CWO In-service Procurement Board held in January 2017 or 
selected by the FY-18 advancement boards are not eligible and shall not be 
considered by the SECB.  CWO selectees who decline appointment or are removed 
from the selection list prior to 13 October 2017 and meet all other SECB 
eligibility criteria will be considered.

3.  Critical Skills Retention Bonus (CSRB)/Selective Retention Bonus (SRB).
    a.  AC/FTS Sailors not selected for continuation shall have the unearned 
portion of any CSRB recouped based on date of transfer to the Fleet Reserve 
or retirement, whichever occurs first.  For questions regarding recoupment, 
contact OPNAV N130D at nxag_n130d(at)navy.mil.
    b.  SELRES Sailors not selected for continuation shall have the unearned 
portion of any SRB recouped based on the date of transfer to the Retired 
Reserve.  For question regarding recoupment, contact Mr. Rob ONeil (CNRFC 
N1C2) at (757) 322-2490, or e-mail at Robert.f.oneil(at)navy.mil.

4.  Timeline of events.
    a.  2 October 2017.  PERS-802 will forward the SECB eligibility list to 
Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center (NETPDC (N321)) 
for publishing to the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) website.
    b.  9 October 2017.  NETPDC (N321) shall publish the names of the 
eligible candidates to NEAS website, accessible by command designated 
personnel at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.  Individual candidates may view 
their SECB eligibility letter at
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/ContinuationBoardInd.aspx.
    c.  9 October  17 November 2017.  It is the member's and command's 
responsibility to verify the eligibility list and ensure any Sailor not 
eligible is identified and removed from the board by 17 November 2017.  
Absent action, these Sailors will remain eligible for the board and will 
forfeit any waiver or appeal process. Commands shall verify the eligibility 
list weekly until 17 November 2017 as the list will be updated while NPC 
reviews eligibility issues.  Sailors who are on the eligibility list as of 17 
November 2017 will be reviewed by the SECB.  Requests for subsequent removal 
will not be approved.
    d.  13 October 2017.  If an eligible candidate is not listed, commands 
must submit their name to PERS-802 requesting the member be added to the SECB 
eligibility list.  Requests for subsequent additions will not be approved.  
Submit eligibility changes via e-mail to the Selection Board Eligibility 
Branch (PERS-802) to: 
Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn (AC) at elizabeth.vaughn(at)navy.mil 
Ms. Dorothy Harris (FTS/SELRES) at dorothy.harris(at)navy.mil.
    e.  17 November 2017.  If a candidate chooses to submit a letter to the 
board (LTB), the letter must be received by NPC Customer Service Center (CSC) 
by 17 November 2017.  A candidates entire record is available for review in 
determining the candidates continuation status.  Incomplete or incorrect 
records may have an impact on the candidates continuation status.  Commands 
should take proactive steps to ensure candidates records are properly updated 
and that candidates review their Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) and 
Performance Summary Record (PSR) and submit a LTB as appropriate.  Each 
candidate should review his or her OMPF and PSR and then exercise reasonable 
diligence to ensure his or her record is complete and accurate.  If the OMPF 
or PSR does not get updated, candidates should provide the missing or 
corrective documentation via his or her LTB.  Candidates are not required to 
submit a LTB to notify the board that everything is complete and accurate in 
their record.
        (1) Candidates should check their OMPF and PSR for evaluation 
continuity.  Any evaluation gaps should be resolved by either submitting the 
missing evaluations in the candidates LTB or a statement in lieu of missing 
report per chapter 17 of reference (a).
        (2) Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the candidates signed LTB.
            (a) The LTB may address any information that the candidate 
considers important.  Candidates should not include items in their LTB that 
are already included in their OMPF or PSR unless the OMPF version is 
unreadable or the PSR is incorrect.  Submitting a LTB to only state that the 
candidates OMPF and PSR have been verified and are correct is not desired.
            (b) The LTB must be either digitally signed using the candidates 
military identity certificate or a hand-written signature.  Unsigned LTBs 
will not be presented to the board.
            (c) Third party correspondence will not be permitted. Third party 
correspondence is any communication to the board which is not accompanied by 
the candidates signed LTB.  Commands are not authorized to submit a message 
to NPC requesting information be presented to the board.
            (d) Information received that is not under a signed LTB or not 
received by NPC CSC by the established deadline will not be presented to the 
board.  The time and date LTBs are received in the NPC CSC inbox (central 
time zone) is the time and date used for deadline verification.  To verify 
receipt of an LTB, go to 
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC 
CSC.  Although late or unsigned LTBs may be accepted by NPC Selection Board 
Support Division, they will not be presented to the board and no feedback 
will be provided to the candidate.
        (3) All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the candidates full name 
and full social security number.  Candidates must verify that the correct 
board number is on their signed cover letter.  The board number is 18478.
        (4) The preferred method to submit an LTB is by encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
personally identifiable information.  Trouble with file encryption or 
certificate issues does not justify a late LTB.
        (5) If unable to e-mail, candidates may use regular mail to the 
addresses below.  Mailed LTBs shall be on plain white paper and paper clipped 
(no staples, binders, folders or tabs).
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 SECB 18478
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (6) Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
        (7) Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB, vice 
waiting until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB. Although multiple 
LTBs are authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent 
information.
    f.  4 December 2017.  The FY-18 SECB convenes.
    g.  TBD  Once results are released.  Once SECB results are approved, 
commanding officers (COs) will be notified via PERSONAL FOR NAVADMIN that the 
results have been posted on BOL for command access only.  COs have seven 
calendar days to notify and counsel those members not selected for 
continuation.
        (1) Counseling shall be documented on NAVPERS 1070/613 Administrative 
Remarks (Page 13) created through Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System 
(NSIPS), Electronic Service Record (ESR) and witnessed by the CO (by 
direction is not authorized).  After counseling and signatures are obtained, 
using the NAVADMIN for this continuation board as authority, forward the 
counseling Page 13 to PERS-313 to be included in the member's OMPF.  Page 13 
format is available at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/enlistedcontinuation/Pages/default.aspx.
        (2) Commands shall immediately contact PERS-833 at ENLISTED 
POSTBOARD(at)navy.mil if a Sailor not selected to continue has transferred or 
is serving on an Individual Augmentation Manpower Management (IAMM), Global 
Support Assignment (GSA), Overseas Contingency Operations Support Assignment 
(OSA), or mobilization.
        (3) After seven calendar days of the release to command triad, a 
complete list of those selected to continue and those not selected to 
continue will be available on BOL for individual access.
        (4) Sailors with orders to or currently on an 
IAMM/GSA/OSA/mobilization who are not selected to continue will be allowed to 
complete their IAMM/GSA/OSA/mobilization tour and transfer to the Fleet 
Reserve/retirement/Retired Reserve (with or without pay) following a maximum 
period of six months after return from IAMM/GSA/OSA/mobilization tour to 
complete the mandatory post- deployment health reassessment (PDHRA).  Sailors 
not selected to continue who desire to transfer to the Fleet 
Reserve/retirement/Retired Reserve (with or without pay) less than six months 
after return from IAMM/GSA/OSA/mobilization are encouraged to submit the date 
of their choice.
            (a) All Sailors with orders to or currently on an IAMM/GSA/OSA/ 
mobilization who are not selected to continue must complete a statement of 
understanding and forward to PERS-833 at ENLISTED-POSTBOARD(at)navy.mil.  
IAMM/GSA/OSA/mobilization statement of understanding format is available at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/enlistedcontinuation/Pages/default.aspx.
            (b) SELRES/VTU Sailors shall be assigned a Manpower Availability 
Status code of "ACB" by the Naval Reserve Activity and are ineligible to be 
identified for new mobilization orders.
            (c) Per reference (b), SELRES Sailors who reach their high year 
tenure (HYT) date while mobilized will be transferred to the VTU by the end 
of the month in which the HYT date occurs and may continue on mobilization 
orders.  SELRES Sailors who are not selected to continue will be authorized 
to remain in the VTU for a maximum period of six months beyond their 
demobilization date to complete the mandatory PDHRA.
            (d) SELRES Sailors not reaching HYT and VTU Sailors shall remain 
in the status held prior to mobilization tour.
        (5) Sailors awaiting final medical board or physical evaluation 
proceedings not selected to continue shall be held in their current status 
until disposition of their case.  Within 30 days of disposition, Sailors 
shall request to transfer to the Fleet Reserve/retirement/Retired Reserve 
(with or without pay).  The effective date of retirement shall be within 
three months of return to full duty status.
    h.  16 March 2018.  Last day for Sailors not selected to continue to 
submit a Fleet Reserve/retirement/Retired Reserve (with or without pay) 
request to PERS-836 for AC and FTS, or PERS-912 for SELRES and VTU.  Sailors 
who are not selected to continue who have requested a Fleet Reserve date 
after 31 August 2018 or retirement date after 1 September 2018 must submit a 
new request to PERS-836 or PERS-912 for a Fleet Reserve date of 31 August 
2018 or earlier, or retirement date of 1 September 2018 or earlier.
    i.  16 March 2018.
        (1) Last day for commands to submit operational waiver requests for 
Sailors assigned to their command who were not selected to continue.  Waivers 
shall be requested only to mitigate a severe operational impact that could 
result in potential mission failure, not for convenience of the service 
member or to allow for transition leave/temporary duty period.  Operational 
waivers will be limited to a maximum of three months.  For AC and FTS 
personnel, operational waivers are routed via the first flag officer in the 
chain of command and approved by the Deputy Chief of Naval Personnel (DCNP).
For SELRES and VTU personnel, operational waivers are routed via the echelon 
IV commander and approved by COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1). Operational waiver format 
is available at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/enlistedcontinuation/Pages/default.aspx
        (2) Last day for commands to submit a readiness appeal.  All 
readiness appeals are approved by the Chief of Naval Personnel (CNP).  
Readiness appeals shall be requested only to mitigate a severe readiness 
impact that cannot be resolved via an operational waiver, not for convenience 
of the service member.  An approved readiness appeal will remove the members 
non-selection for continuation.  A command may submit a readiness appeal with 
concurrence of the member via their respective chain of command as stipulated 
below.  Readiness appeal format is available at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/enlistedcontinuation/Pages/default.aspx
            (a) Eligibility.  Readiness appeals may only be initiated by the 
CO of a Sailor not selected for continuation. Members who have been detached 
for cause or awarded non-judicial punishment/courts-martial or have other 
adjudicated misconduct between 3 December 2014 and 4 December 2017 are not 
eligible to be considered for the readiness appeal process.
            (b) A readiness appeal shall focus on the negative impact to unit 
or force readiness if the Sailor is separated, not for the convenience of the 
member.
            (c) AC and FTS appeal requests will be routed via the 
administrative chain of command to the type commander (TYCOM).  If the TYCOM 
recommends approval, the request is forwarded to PERS-833 for further routing 
to CNP for final disposition.
            (d) SELRES appeal requests will be routed through the 
administrative chain of command via COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1) to the TYCOM.  If 
the TYCOM recommends approval, the request will be forwarded to PERS-833 for 
further routing to CNP for final disposition.
            (e) VTU appeal requests will be routed via the administrative 
chain of command to COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1).  If COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1) recommends 
approval, the request is forwarded to PERS-833 for further routing to CNP for 
final disposition.
            (f) If the TYCOM (AC/FTS/SELRES) or COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1)(VTU) 
does not recommend approval, the request is disapproved and is returned to 
the requesting command.  An electronic copy of disapprovals will be forwarded 
to PERS-833 for record retention.
            (g) CNP's decision is final and not subject to waiver/appeal to 
higher authority.
            (h) All Sailors who have successfully appealed the non-selection 
for continuation remain eligible for a later SECB as well as standard Navy 
administrative separation processes.
    j.  1 September 2018.  If not approved for an operational waiver, this is 
the last authorized effective date for Sailors not selected to continue to 
transition to the Fleet Reserve/retirement/Retired Reserve (with or without 
pay).
    k.  1 December 2018.  If approved for an operational waiver, this is the 
last authorized effective date for Sailors not selected to continue to 
transition to the Fleet Reserve/retirement/Retired Reserve (with or without 
pay).

5.  Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active-Duty (DD 214). For AC/FTS 
Sailors, prepare the Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active-Duty (DD 
214) using the following entries:
Blk 23:  Transfer to the Fleet Reserve or Retired (as applicable)
Blk 24:  Characterization of service as warranted by service record
Blk 25:  MILPERSMAN 1810-010 and current NAVADMIN directing
         Continuation Board
Blk 26:  NBD
Blk 27:  RE-2
Blk 28:  Sufficient Service for Retirement

6.  Advancement and Future Continuation Board consideration. Personnel not 
selected to continue are ineligible for further advancement consideration by 
enlisted selection or in-service procurement boards.  Unless approved for a 
readiness appeal, personnel not selected for continuation by this board are 
ineligible for consideration by a future continuation board and shall be 
separated per the guidelines in this NAVADMIN.

7.  Board Membership.  Command master chiefs are encouraged to apply to 
become SECB members and non-eligible senior chief petty officers and chief 
petty officers are encouraged to apply to become SECB recorders.  
Applications must be received not later than 25 September 2017.  Point of 
contact is Mr. Patrick Marshall at (901) 874-3223, or e-mail at 
donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil.  The application can be found at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx.

8.  Point of contact for SECB execution is PERS-803 at (901) 874-2245/4540.  
General information regarding this board can be found at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/enlistedcontinuation/Pages/default.aspx.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
