UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 131455Z OCT 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 239/15

SUBJ/NAVY CYBERSECURITY COMMUNICATIONS CAMPAIGN

RMKS/1.  Every day the Navy is in an active cybersecurity fight against 
witting foes that are technologically sophisticated and well-funded.  The 
Navy's networked systems are an essential part of naval operations but their 
connectedness increases the potential impact of a cyber-event.  Complacency 
about cybersecurity makes the Navy vulnerable to attacks that could 
significantly affect operations.

2.  The cyber threat reaches beyond traditional IT networks to systems that 
affect nearly every aspect of the Navy's mission.  Machinery control, weapons 
and navigation systems may be vulnerable, as well as the systems and networks 
supporting human resources, financial management, and logistics business 
processes.  A successful cyber-intrusion anywhere in the Navy increases the 
risk that adversaries can move to other targets.  Therefore, a mistake by one 
individual puts everyone and the mission at risk.  Adhering to cybersecurity 
policies, directives, and best practices is commanders' business and requires 
an All Hands approach to protect the Navy and the mission.

3.  This month, the Navy has launched a year-long communications campaign to 
create a culture where cybersecurity discipline is a high priority and a 
daily habit, protecting the Navy from the persistent cyber threat it faces.  
This campaign will provide information showing that the cyber threat is real, 
describing how adversaries succeed, showing what the Navy can do to defend 
itself, and spelling out the steps everyone must take to improve the Navy's 
cybersecurity.  Campaign content will be delivered through social media, blog 
posts, printed materials, articles, videos, public service announcements, and 
other avenues.  Your commitment to cybersecurity will protect the Navy and 
contribute to our cyber fight.

4.  Every time you connect to or operate a Navy network or system, you are in 
the cyber battlespace.  Think cybersecurity before you act.

5.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2/N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
