UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 141446Z JUN 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 144/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/ANNOUNCEMENT OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR THE FY-19 ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT-TO-
VACANCY SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/152143ZFEB18//
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/9JAN15//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 255/17, FY-19 NAVY ACTIVE DUTY AND RESERVE ADVANCEMENT 
SELECTION BOARDS FOR MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER FEBRUARY 
2018 (CORRECTED COPY).  REF B IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, NAVY ADVANCEMENT 
MANUAL.  REF C IS MILPERSMAN 1306-112, NAVPERS 1306/7 ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
ACTION REQUEST.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces a pilot program for the FY-19 Enlisted 
Advancement-to-Vacancy Selection Board, a component of our continuing Rating 
Modernization efforts.  The purpose of this selection board is to fill 
priority billets via a spot advancement incentive.  This advance-to-vacancy 
board is separate from reference (a).  The board will carefully consider, 
without prejudice or partiality, the record of every qualified applicant and 
select those Sailors who are the best and fully qualified to fill priority 
billets within the Navy.  Factors for consideration in determining the best 
and fully qualified applicants include sustained superior performance, 
documented qualifications, platform experience, and potential to succeed in 
the specified priority billet(s).  Sailors selected by the board will be 
temporarily (spot) advanced to the paygrade associated with the authorized 
billet and receive pay commensurate with that paygrade upon reporting to 
their ultimate duty station.  While future pilots may expand to more junior 
paygrades, this pilot will be limited to critical E8 and E9 billets.
To be permanently advanced, Sailors must later be selected for the next 
paygrade by the regularly scheduled active-duty senior chief petty officer 
(SCPO) or master chief petty officer (MCPO) selection board.  This spot 
advancement will not affect eligibility for those annual boards, but the SCPO 
and MCPO selection board precepts and convening orders will stipulate that 
personnel who demonstrate exceptional performance in an advancement-to-
vacancy billet will be given favorable consideration.  If a Sailor transfers 
from a spot- advanced billet for any reason prior to being permanently 
selected for the next paygrade, the Sailor will revert back to their 
permanent paygrade effective the date of the transfer.  Sailors selected for 
advancement-to-vacancy billets should expect to receive permanent change of 
station orders with a transfer date approximately 90 days after release of 
board results.

2.  Eligibility
    a.  Applicants must meet all eligibility requirements for the regularly 
scheduled FY-19 active-duty SCPO or MCPO selection board in line with 
references (a) and (b).  This initial pilot program is open to active 
component Sailors only.  It is the responsibility of the member and command 
to verify eligibility.  Personnel selected for advancement via the FY-19 
active-duty SCPO or MCPO selection boards are not eligible for the FY-19 
Enlisted Advancement-to- Vacancy Selection Board.
    b.  Applicants must receive favorable endorsement of suitability for the 
billet(s) to which they are applying from their commanding officer (CO) via 
reference (c).
    c.  Applicants must sign, and have their CO witness, Administrative 
Remarks (NAVPERS 1070/613) (permanent) with the following statement:  *I 
understand that by submitting an application for consideration by the FY-19 
Enlisted Advancement-to- Vacancy Selection Board, I am certifying that I am 
assignable to any billets for which I applied and will execute orders to 
those billets when directed.*
    d.  Applicants must possess required Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) 
codes for the billet(s) advertised or have pre- requisite experience to 
easily obtain required NECs enroute to the billet.  See paragraph 4 for 
detailed requirements of each billet.
    e.  Applicants who have submitted voluntary Fleet Reserve 
(FLTRES)/retirement requests to Navy Personnel Command (NPC) are not eligible 
for consideration for this pilot program.

3.  Application.  The FY-19 Enlisted Advancement-to-Vacancy Selection Board 
is scheduled to convene on 13 August 2018.  For the most current board dates, 
visit the NPC board webpage at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/selectionboardsupport/pages/default2.aspx and select *FY19 Board 
Schedule.*  Applications must include: 
  
    a.  Completed Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) 
indicating billet(s) being applied for and favorable endorsement of 
suitability for the billet(s) being applied for from the CO of the applicant.  
Applicants must verify that their application is clearly marked *FY-19 
Enlisted Advancement-to-Vacancy Selection Board (Board #705)* on their 
application and signed NAVPERS 1306/7.
    b.  Signed NAVPERS 1070/613, as listed in subparagraph 2c above.
    c.  Any pertinent documents that are not already contained in the 
Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) of the applicant that would assist 
the selection board in their deliberations.
        (1) All communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the signed application.
        (2) Third party correspondence is any communication to the board 
which is not accompanied by the signed application and will not be presented 
to the board.  Commands are not authorized to submit a message to NPC 
requesting information be presented to the board.  This supersedes 
information provided in reference (b).

4.  Billets.  Applications for the ratings and paygrades delineated in 
paragraphs 4b through 4j will be considered by the board.
Applicants shall provide a prioritized ranking of all billets within their 
rating on the NAVPERS 1306/7 using the billet titles and locations listed 
below.  If applicants are selected by the board, they will be slated to the 
billet that best fits the needs of the Navy and the skill sets/desires of the 
selectee.  To repeat application for this program is application for any and 
all of the billets available to an applicant’s rating.
    a.  Personnel with assignment restrictions should only apply to billets 
to which they are eligible for assignment.  If a Sailor wishes to apply but 
is not world-wide assignable for policy reasons such as (but not limited to) 
Exceptional Family Member or overseas screening status for certain billets 
within each group below, they should indicate their non-eligibility for those 
billets on the submitted 1306/7.  NPC personnel will independently verify 
non- eligibility status for associated billets prior to board convening.
    b.  ADCSs, AECSs, AMCSs, and ATCSs eligible for advancement to AVCM or 
AFCM shall provide a prioritized ranking of the following seven billets.  
Applicants must hold the 8800 (770B) or 724B NECs.

        (1) Billet:  VAW Aviation Maintenance Supervisor (Maintenance Master 
Chief)
            Location:  Iwakuni, Japan
        (2) Billet:  VFA Aviation Maintenance Supervisor (Maintenance Master 
Chief)
            Location:  Lemoore, CA
        (3) Billet:  CVN Production Control Supervisor
            Location:  Bremerton, WA
        (4) Billet:  VAQ Aviation Maintenance Supervisor (Maintenance Master 
Chief)
            Location:  Whidbey Island, WA
        (5) Billet:  HM Aviation Maintenance Supervisor (Maintenance Master 
Chief)
            Location:  Norfolk, VA
        (6) Billet:  LHA MMCPO/Production Control Supervisor
            Location:  San Diego, CA (Prospective location: Sasebo,
Japan)
        (7) Billet: VFA Aviation Maintenance Supervisor (Maintenance Master 
Chief)
            Location: Oceana, VA
    c.  DCCs eligible for advancement to DCCS shall provide a prioritized 
ranking of the following two billets.
        (1) Billet:  ATG Training Manager
            Location:  Pearl Harbor, HI
            Applicants must hold the U46A NEC
        (2) Billet:  ATG Maintenance Manager
            Location:  Norfolk, VA
            Applicants must hold the 811A NEC
    d.  ENCSs eligible for advancement to ENCM shall provide a prioritized 
ranking of the following four billets.  Applicants must be Engineering 
Officer of the Watch (EOOW) qualified and must submit a copy of their EOOW 
qualification letter with their application.
        (1) Billet:  LSD Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  Sasebo, Japan
        (2) Billet:  LPD Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  San Diego, CA
        (3) Billet:  LSD Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  Little Creek, VA
        (4) Billet:  ATG Training Manager
            Location:  Norfolk, VA
            Applicants must hold the U16A NEC
    e.  FCACSs eligible for advancement to FCACM shall list the following 
billet.
        (1) Billet:  CG Fire Control Administrator (Combat Systems 
Maintenance Manager)
            Location:  Yokosuka, Japan
    f.  FCACs eligible for advancement to FCACS shall provide a prioritized 
ranking of the following two billets.  Applicants must hold at least one of 
the following NECs:  V52A, V57A, V61A, V65A, or V72A.
        (1) Billet:  DDG Fire Control Administrator (Combat Systems 
Maintenance Manager)
            Location:  Pearl Harbor, HI
        (2) Billet:  DDG Fire Control Administrator (Combat Systems 
Maintenance Manager)
            Location:  San Diego, CA
    g.  GSECs or GSMCs eligible for advancement to GSCS shall provide a 
prioritized ranking of the following seven billets.
Applicants must be EOOW-qualified and must submit a copy of their EOOW 
qualification letter with their application.
        (1) Billet:  ATG Training Manager
            Location:  Yokosuka, Japan
            Applicants must hold the U07A NEC
        (2) Billet:  DDG Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  Yokosuka, Japan
        (3) Billet:  ATG Training Manager
            Location:  Pearl Harbor, HI
            Applicants must hold the U07A NEC
        (4) Billet:  DDG Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  Everett, WA
        (5) Billet:  CG Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  Pearl Harbor, HI
        (6) Billet:  CG Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  San Diego, CA
        (7) Billet:  DDG Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  Norfolk, VA
    h.  ITCSs eligible for advancement to ITCM shall list the following 
billet.  Applicants must hold the H00A or H01A NEC.
        (1) Billet:  CSG IT Communications Technician (Carrier Strike Group 
Spectrum Manager)
            Location:  San Diego, CA
    i.  MMCSs eligible for advancement to MMCM shall provide a prioritized 
ranking of the following two billets.  Applicants must be EOOW-qualified and 
submit a copy of their EOOW qualification letter with their application.
        (1) Billet:  COMPHIBRON Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  Sasebo, Japan
        (2) Billet:  LHD Advanced Leader (Top Snipe)
            Location:  San Diego, CA
    j.  QMCs eligible for advancement to QMCS shall list the following 
billet.  Applicants must have completed a successful Navigation Manager 
(Assistant Navigator) tour.
        (1) Billet:  ATG Training Manager
            Location:  Yokosuka, Japan

5.  Electronic applications must be submitted no later than
9 July 2018.  Applications submitted via mail must be postmarked no later 
than 9 July 2018.
    a.  The preferred method to submit applications is via encrypted e-mail 
to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed applications must be encrypted to 
protect personally-identifiable information.  Trouble with file encryption or 
certificate issues will not justify late applications.  To confirm receipt of 
your application, go to 
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC 
Customer Service Center (CSC), listed below.
    b.  If unable to e-mail, candidates may send hard copy applications via 
mail to the address below.  Mailed applications shall be on plain white paper 
and paper clipped (no staples, binders, folders, or tabs) to:
        (1) Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            (BUPERS-07) President
            FY-19 Enlisted Advancement-to-Vacancy Selection
            Board (Board #705)
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (2) Certified or registered mail is not recommended due to delays in 
handling.

6.  Points of contact:
    a.  NPC CSC, 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672, or e-mail at 
UASKNPC(at)NAVY.MIL.  Do not submit applications to this e-mail.
    b.  For application and eligibility questions contact CDR Christopher 
Stillion, PERS-4013DS, at (901) 874-4184/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
chris.stillion(at)navy.mil.
    c.  For board execution questions contact PERS-803 at e-mail:
npc_pers803(at)navy.mil.  Do not submit applications to this e-mail.

7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled, 
whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
