RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 0521843-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 211843Z FEB 14
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01500//

NAVADMIN 034/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING
DEGREE PROGRAM FOR SEPTEMBER 2014//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/061710ZAUG07//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the 
September 2014 distance learning Executive Master of Business 
Administration (EMBA) program.  The program will be taught in the 
Norfolk, Mayport, and San Diego fleet concentration areas, as well 
as Pensacola, Patuxent River, Lemoore, Corpus Christi, Jacksonville, 
Washington Navy Yard, Bangor, Hawaii and other established sites.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a 
24-month, Navy-funded, part-time graduate program focused on resource
management.  The program prepares middle to senior grade active duty 
officers (O4 (select), O4, and O5), whose career paths preclude 
in-resident NPS graduate programs, for positions requiring resource 
management expertise.

3.  The program begins with a one-week temporary additional duty 
(TAD) resident program at the NPS campus in Monterey, CA.  Official 
travel orders and funding for TAD travel should normally be provided
by the student's parent command.  If command funding is not available, 
students may fund their own travel and utilize no-cost temporary duty 
orders from their command.  During the resident week, students will 
take a two-credit hour course in managing teams.  Additionally, 
students will interact with the faculty who will be teaching 
throughout the program and master the skills required to learn via 
distance learning methods.  The NPS program is scheduled for the week 
of 15-19 September 2014.  A block of rooms has been reserved at the 
Monterey Navy Lodge, for all attendees.  Optionally, the NPS Bachelor
Officer Quarters on campus may be utilized on a space available basis.
Bus transportation will be provided to and from the Navy Lodge for 
daily classes on the NPS campus to minimize costs.

4.  NPS faculty use video teleconferencing (VTC), Internet, and other 
distance learning modes to teach the follow-on courses.  Students 
meet in VTC-capable classrooms once a week during normal duty hours 
for six to seven hours of instruction, taking two classes per quarter 
for eight quarters.  Students enter the EMBA program as a cohort and 
will take all courses together as a learning team (min 5 persons).  
All students must recognize that attending classes with their 
respective cohort is mandatory to complete the degree requirements.  
VTC instruction will begin during the week of 1 October 2014.  Class 
schedules will be posted on the EMBA web site when confirmed.

5.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a 
regionally accredited four-year college or university, academic 
profile code of 245 (2.6 GPA or higher on a 4 point scale and 2 or 
more pre-calculus courses with a grade average of B or better; 
official transcripts must be forwarded to director of admissions for
evaluation), department head or similar mid-level management 
experience, strong potential for promotion, and command endorsement.
The Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) is not required.  
Individuals desiring to participate in the program must have projected
rotation dates that allow them to complete the full 24-month program
at their selected location (no earlier than September 2016).  
Graduates will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the Navy 
subspecialty code 3100P, Resource Management - Defense Focus.  
Graduates will be expected to serve in at least one financial 
management subspecialty coded billet as a follow-on assignment.

6.  Per ref (a), officers participating in this program must agree 
to remain on active duty following completion of graduate studies for
a period of three years.  This obligation is discharged concurrently 
with any other service obligation already incurred.  This agreement 
does not obligate the Navy to retain the officer on active duty.

7.  The application deadline is 25 July 2014 for the September 2014 
cohort.  Submit applications by following all of the steps (contact 
detailer, complete online application, send official transcripts, 
prepare documents, and transmit) explained in the application process 
provided on the EMBA web site, www.nps.edu/emba/emba805/prospective.
html.  Preferably, applications should be transmitted via encrypted 
e-mail to emba(at)nps.edu.  Alternatively, if e-mail is unavailable, 
physical packages may be sent via mail/shipping service (i.e. USPS, 
UPS, FedEx, DHL, etc.) to:
    EMBA Program Manager
    Naval Postgraduate School
    555 Dyer Rd Code GSBPP/HH Rm 339
    Monterey CA 93943-5103.

8.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office at (831) 656-2562/
DSN 756 or via e-mail at emba(at)nps.edu.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 31 December
2014, whichever occurs first.

10. Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//
BT
#0000
NNNN

