UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 011719Z SEP 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO USCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
COMFLTCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
DIRNSA FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 218/17

SUBJ/CALL FOR APPLICANTS FOR THE JOINT COMPUTER NETWORK OPERATIONS 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (J-CNODP) CLASS OF 2021//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUG//

REF/A/DOC/NSA/JUL/NOTAL//

AMPN/REF A IS NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (NSA) CALL FOR APPLICANTS FOR THE J-
CNODP CLASS OF 2021// POC/WILLIAM LOVEJOY/FCC-C10F N13/TEL: (443) 634-4586
EMAIL: USFF_FCC_C10F_NSAH_CNODP(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This is the annual call for the Joint Computer Network Operations 
Development Program (J-CNODP), Class of 2021.  The J-CNODP is comprised of 
the NSA Computer Network Operations Development Program (CNODP) and the 
United States Cyber Command (USCC) Joint Cyber Development Program (JCDP).  
This is an opportunity for a select group of highly technically inclined 
individuals to further develop their skills in the areas of secure system 
design, vulnerability analysis, Computer Network Defense (CND), and Computer 
Network Exploitation (CNE).  The goal of the program is to develop a cadre of 
technical leaders who will improve Department of Defense
(DoD) Computer Network Operations (CNO) capabilities.  The program is a 
technically demanding three-year internship, tailored to each applicant to 
best capitalize on individual expertise.  The next class is expected to start 
on or about 9 July 2018, with an anticipated report not later than (NLT) date 
of 23 April 2018, to allow sufficient time for in-processing, orientation, 
and security clearance processing.

2.  Ideal J-CNODP candidates will have many of the following
qualifications:
    a.  Bachelor's degree plus advanced courses or equivalent experience in 
the areas of computer engineering, computer science, electronic and 
electrical engineering, or applied mathematics.
    b.  Exceptional academic performance and professional accomplishments, as 
well as a demonstrated interest in and ability to perform technically 
oriented, hands-on work.
    c.  Well-developed oral and written communication skills.
    d.  Working knowledge in one or more telecommunications or computer 
network disciplines (computer hardware, software, or networks).
    e.  Well-qualified officers (O1-O3), enlisted (E5-E7), and Service 
Cryptologic Element (SCE) civilians (GS7 - GS12). Previous assignments should 
include experience in CNO, signal intelligence
(SIGINT) collection operations, information security (INFOSEC) /information 
assurance (IA), and/or research and development (R&D).
    f.  Demonstrated programming skills in C or C++.
    g.  Selected applicants must possess a TS/SCI security clearance and a 
current counter-intelligence (CI) polygraph prior to the projected class 
start date of 9 July 2018.

3.  Caveats:
    a.  A three (3) year commitment is required upon graduation to fulfill 
the follow-on tour requirement.
    b.  Applicants must contact their detailer for counseling on the career 
impact of participation in the J-CNODP program.
    c.  Civilian applicants must have concurrence from their respective 
command and all PCS and associated costs are the responsibility of each 
command.
    d.  All applicants must have the ability to continue service for six (6) 
years from program start date.

4.  Please ensure widest dissemination to include, cryptologic, intelligence, 
communications and computer science, scientific, engineering, acquisition, 
and operations fields.

5.  Selection will be based on a thorough FCC/C10F review and ranking of each 
application package followed with an interview of the top applicants by the 
NSA and USCC J-CNODP selection board. The application package shall include 
the following:
    a.  Documentation that demonstrates service performance and technical 
competency.
        (1) Officer: Academic Transcripts, ODC, OSR, complete PSR, and an 
optional subset of your fitness reports.
        (2) Enlisted: Academic Transcripts, ESR, complete PSR, and 
evaluations detailing technical competence.
        (3) Civilian: Academic Transcripts and any performance assessments 
detailing technical competence.
    b.  A career impact and endorsement letter from applicant's detailer.
    c.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's Commanding Officer.
    d.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's supervisor attesting to 
his/her technical skills and abilities.
    e.  An optional letter of recommendation at the applicant's discretion.
    f.  A letter from the applicant (two pages or less) answering the
following:
        (1) Why do you think that J-CNODP is the right choice for you?
What goals do you wish to accomplish in J-CNODP?  Do you have a preference 
for NSA CNODP or USCC JCDP program?  If so, why?
        (2) Detail your experience with programming/software engineering, to 
include programming language(s) (degree of familiarity, breadth of 
knowledge/duration of use, and when it was last used).  Only include 
languages for which you have actually written (or substantially modified) 
code.  Include any and all:
assembly, hardware-based, high-level, and scripting languages.
        (3) Other than programming language expertise listed above, how does 
your experience and training relate to the core fields (hardware, software, 
and networks)?
        (4) Teaming:  Describe a positive teaming experience that you have 
had.  Describe your role on the team and how you contributed.
You may include experiences from work or school.
        (5) Technical experience:  Describe an unclassified project that best 
exemplifies your technical development activities and experiences.  Tell us 
the technical details of your contributions to that project, highlighting 
your strengths and weaknesses.
The project can be work, home, or school related.
        (6) Self-directed:  Give one example of a project where you worked by 
yourself with very little guidance.  Briefly describe what you accomplished, 
how you approached the problem, and how you liked/disliked working in that 
capacity.
        (7) NAVPERS 1070/613 that includes the following verbiage:
"I understand that my acceptance of admission into the Joint Computer Network 
Operations Development Program obligates me to serve on Active Duty for a 
period of six years following the commencement of the program.  If I elect to 
leave the program early, I am obligated to serve on Active Duty for a period 
of one month for every one month served in the program, commencing upon 
voluntary program termination."  Applicants who fail to include the NAVPERS 
1070/613 with their nomination package will not be considered. Enlisted 
personnel who fail to OBLISERV for six years prior to program start will not 
be allowed to begin the program.

6.  Commands are encouraged to nominate the best-qualified individuals for 
this voluntary program.  This is an outstanding opportunity to provide future 
technical leaders with the necessary skills needed to lead the Navy in this 
vital area.

7.  Send applications to the U.S. Fleet Cyber Command/U.S. TENTH Fleet, Point 
of Contact (POC):  William Lovejoy, usff_fcc_c10f_nsah _cnodp(at)navy.mil NLT 
15 September 2017 for review and prioritization.
Nominating organizations are expected to pay travel/per diem costs for 
necessary travel associated with interviews, which will occur in the November 
2017 - January 2018 time frame; video conferencing will be used wherever 
necessary.

8.  Release authorized by Mrs. Sharon H. Smoot, Vice Director, Navy Staff 
(Acting).//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
