UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 211519Z SEP 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 233/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE UPDATE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/111904ZJUL18//

REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/1JAN03//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 163/18, NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE 
UPDATE.  REF B IS NAVPERS 15665I, U.S. NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces updates to Navy uniform policies and 
provides a status update on several Navy uniform initiatives.
Uniform policy updates include post-tour command insignia occasion and manner 
of wear, coyote brown ball cap occasion for wear, utility uniform t-shirt 
manner of wear, male and female grooming standards, and wear of U.S. Marine 
Corps uniforms by Sailors.  Additionally, this NAVADMIN provides updates on 
current uniform initiatives to include the improved female officer and CPO 
slacks and skirts, the I Boot 4, the Navy Uniform Application and the start-
up of a new uniform policy working group open to Fleet participation.

2.  Navy Uniform Policy Update
    a.  Post-Tour Command at Sea and Command Ashore/Project Manager Insignia.  
Effective immediately, optional simultaneous wear of post-tour command at sea 
and command ashore/project manager insignia is authorized when wearing Navy 
Working Uniform (NWU) (Type I/II/III), service uniforms (Service Khaki and 
Summer White) and Service Dress Uniforms (SDB and SDW with ribbons).  When 
worn simultaneously, placement of the insignia on the uniform will be 1/4 of 
an inch beneath the lower row of ribbons, secondary warfare device or service 
tape (as applicable) and centered on the pocket or pocket flap as follows:
        (1)  Command at sea insignia will be placed inboard toward the center 
of the chest denoting primary placement.
        (2)  Command ashore/project manager insignia will be placed outboard 
of the command at sea insignia of the wearer, with 1 inch of spacing between 
the two insignias.
    b.  Coyote Brown Ball Cap.  Effective immediately, by commanding officer 
discretion, authorized optional wear of the Coyote Brown Ball Cap is extended 
to Navy coveralls and Navy flight suits.
    c.  Working/Utility Uniform T-shirts.  Effective immediately, by 
commanding officer discretion, command logos are authorized on t-shirts worn 
with all working/utility uniforms (NWU Type I/II/III, navy coveralls, and 
flight suits).  Command logos may be applied via heat transfer, silk screen 
or embroidery to one-hundred percent cotton t-shirts that are either navy 
blue, coyote brown or black in color (as authorized with each uniform).  
Logos may be worn on the front and back of t-shirts that are in good taste, 
enhance unit esprit de corps and reflect well upon the Navy and the unit they 
represent.  Logo placement is as follows:
        (1)  The front logo will be placed on the left side of the wearer 
above the breast and will be no larger than 3 inches in height and width.
        (2)  The logo placed on the back of the t-shirt will be centered and 
may encompass the entire back.
        (3)  Logo colors will be conservative, non-reflective and will not be 
visible when worn with the uniform shirt, coveralls or flight suit.
        (4)  When worn with uniform trousers only, the t-shirt will remain 
tucked-in.
        (5)  T-shirts worn with working/utility uniforms with command logos 
are authorized for wear as civilian clothing by commanding officer 
discretion.
    d.  Grooming Standards.  The following grooming standard changes provide 
policy update and clarity regarding lock hairstyles, rings, bracelets and 
fingernails, and is effective immediately:
        (1)  Lock Hairstyle.   Locks may be loose (free-hanging
where no hair is added to the lock once it is started other than hair 
extensions that are attached to natural hair).  When worn loose, locks will 
be spaced no more than 3/8 of an inch apart, diameter/width will not exceed 
3/8 of an inch and locks will be tightly interlaced to present a neat and 
professional military appearance.  Locks may also be worn in a bun provided 
all hair grooming requirements are met.  Faux locks are authorized provided 
the hairstyle worn is in compliance with female hair grooming requirements.  
Locks may not be worn in combination with other hair styles (e.g., twists, 
braids).
        (2)  Rings.  While in uniform, rings shall be conservative and in 
good taste.  Eccentric or faddish rings are not authorized.
Rings may consist of natural metals or fabricated materials (i.e., plastic, 
wood, silicone) and may be gold, silver, copper, grey, tan, brown, black, 
white or light pink in color.  Only one ring per hand is authorized, plus a 
wedding/engagement ring set.  Double stacking wedding rings with military 
academy/educational institution rings is authorized on one hand.  Rings shall 
not present a safety or foreign object damage (FOD) hazard.  Thumb rings are 
not authorized.
        (3)  Bracelets.  While in uniform, bracelets shall be conservative 
and in good taste.  Eccentric or faddish bracelets are not authorized.  
Bracelets may consist of natural metals or fabricated materials (i.e., 
plastic, wood, silicone) and may be gold, silver, copper, grey, tan, brown, 
black, white or light pink in color.  Only one bracelet may be worn.  Ankle 
bracelets in uniform are not authorized.  Bracelets shall not present a 
safety or FOD hazard.
       (4)  Fingernails.  Fingernails for women shall not exceed 1/4 inch 
measured from the fingertip and shall be kept clean.  The tips of the nails 
may be round, almond/oval or square in shape.  Nail polish may be worn, but 
colors shall be conservative and inconspicuous.  White, black, red, yellow, 
orange, green, purple, grey, glitter, striped or any sort of 
pattern/decorative nail polish is not authorized.  French and American 
manicures (white and off- white tips with neutral base color only) are 
authorized.
Fingernails for men shall not extend past fingertips and shall be kept clean.  
The tips of the nails may be round to align with the contour of the 
fingertip.  Buffed nails or clear coat nail polish is authorized.  Colored 
nail polish is not authorized for men.
    e.  Sailors wearing U.S. Marine Corps Uniforms.  Effective immediately, 
Sailors assigned to U.S. Marine Corps units who wear the Marine Corps uniform 
will abide by Marine Corps grooming standards.

3.  Navy Uniform Initiatives Update
    a.  Officer and CPO Female Slacks and Skirts.  As previously announced in 
reference (a), the testing and evaluation of an improved design skirt and 
slacks for female officers and CPOs was conducted in Washington, DC.  The 
conclusion of the testing was successful and confirmed the specifications for 
an improved design of the lower waist and reduced rise service uniform slacks 
and straight line service uniform skirt.  Certification of these new 
components are complete and availability for purchase at designated Fleet 
concentration uniform centers is targeted for the end of calendar year 2018.  
Future announcements and advertisements will be provided by your local NEX 
when details are available.
    b.  I Boot 4.  The improved general safety boot (I Boot 4) with enhanced 
comfort and durability features will be available for purchase in October 
2018.  The I Boot 4 development was influenced by Sailor feedback and will 
include a padded foam collar, moisture wicking full interior liner, enhanced 
durability and a weather compatible slip resistant outsole.  The I Boot 4 
will be sold at Norfolk, VA, San Diego, CA, Jacksonville, FL, Yokosuka, 
Japan, Pearl Harbor, HI, Newport, RI, and Great Lakes, IL Student Store 
Uniform Centers and the Uniform Call Center upon availability.  Future 
announcements and advertisements will be provided by your local NEX when 
further details are available.
    c.  Navy Uniform Application (Uniform App).  Thanks to many of you in the 
Fleet, the Uniform App was the number one Navy app for hits and downloads for 
iOS and Android devices in July and August.
More improvements are planned to make the app even better.  Provide your 
recommendations on how to improve the Uniform App by emailing *Ask The 
Chiefs* at umo_cmc(at)navy.mil.

4.  The Navy Uniform Matters Office established a uniform policy working 
group to provide a forum for direct Fleet feedback.  Navy uniform policy 
updates are a result of a combination of policy review and analysis, direct 
feedback from Sailors in the Fleet, uniform policy working groups and 
direction by senior Navy leadership.  Promulgation of uniform policy is via 
NAVADMIN.
Feedback and recommendations continue to be welcome via the *Ask The
Chiefs* email at umo_cmc(at)navy.mil on the Navy Uniform Matters Office 
Website on the Navy Personnel Command web page www.npc.navy.mil, or the 
Uniform App.  Commands that are interested in having an assigned member of 
their crew participate in a future uniform policy working groups may submit a 
command endorsed request with the name, rank/rate, and availability of the 
Sailor to *Ask The
Chiefs* via umo_cmc(at)navy.mil.

5.  Questions and comments regarding this NAVADMIN should be addressed to the 
Navy Uniform Matters Office, OPNAV N13X, via email to Mr. Robert B. Carroll, 
Head of Navy Uniform Matters Office, at robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil, 
LSCM(AW/EXW/SW) Judith P. Nelson- Williams, Deputy Head of Navy Uniform 
Matters Office, at judith.nelson(at)navy.mil, LSCS(EXW) Michael L. Harvie, 
Reserve Component Specialist at michael.harvie(at)navy.mil or PS1(SW/AW) 
Batricia B. Morgan at batricia.morgan(at)navy.mil.

6.  Retain this NAVADMIN until policy changes are incorporated in reference 
(b), superseded or canceled, whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

