UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 281530Z SEP 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 241/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-19 AVIATION PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR BOARD//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the FY-19 Aviation 
Professional Flight Instructor (PFI) Board in November.  The PFI Program is a 
career path initiative that allows well-qualified pilots and naval flight 
officers to serve continuously as flight instructors beyond their department 
head (DH) milestone.  This path is an alternative to the traditional 
sea/shore rotational career path associated with operational service and for 
officers who do not wish to pursue command opportunities.  The PFI career 
path offers greater assignment stability for selected officers and their 
families and provides professionally and personally rewarding experiences 
shaping the development of our newest naval aviators.

2.  PFI is a new program designed for the Navy to optimally manage the 
talents of its aviators.  PFI provides flexibility in officer community 
manning and improves the return on investment from aviation training by 
leveraging the fleet experience and instructional skillsets of officers 
throughout their careers.  Applications from qualified 1310 and 1320 
lieutenant commander and commander aviators are now being accepted for the 20 
November 2018 PFI board.  Full-Time Support and Selected Reserve officers are 
not eligible to apply.

3.  Qualifying assignments for the PFI Program include, but are not limited 
to: fleet replacement squadron, primary, intermediate and advanced flight 
instructor tours.  Applicants must meet the following eligibility 
requirements:
    a.  Completed or currently serving in either an operational or 
operational-training aviation DH assignment.
    b.  Completed a prior tour flying in aviation production.
    c.  A projected rotation date (PRD) in calendar year 2019.
    d.  At least 36 months remaining before statutory retirement date.
    e.  Officers who do not meet these eligibility requirements must submit a 
waiver request with their PFI application.  Waiver requests require a 
commanding officer (CO) endorsement.

4.  Submit applications and any waiver requests via encrypted e-mail to 
jeffrey.creighan(at)navy.mil with applicable CO endorsements.
E-mail subject line should reflect *Board Package:  FY19 Aviation 
Professional Flight Instructor Board.*  If no means of electronic 
correspondence are available, application packages may be sent to:

    Navy Personnel Command, PERS-432F
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington TN 38055-0000

5.  Applications, waiver requests and other eligibility documentation must be 
received no later than 13 November 2018.  All non-eligibility supplemental 
information for the PFI Board such as transcripts, letters of recommendation 
or current fitness reports must be received no later than 16 November 2018.

6.  Officers selected for the PFI Program incur an obligation to execute no 
less than 36 months in a qualifying billet.  Upon notification of selection 
by Strike Fighter Squadron Department Head Detailer (PERS-432F), officers 
will have ten business days to accept or decline this commitment.  Failure to 
respond within ten days can constitute declination of the PFI opportunity.  
Formal selectee conversion to PFI will occur no sooner than current tour PRD.

7.  Officers selected for PFI will be awarded additional qualification 
designator (AQD) for classification and tracking purposes.
PFIs are no longer eligible for command consideration and future orders will 
retain the PFI within Chief of Naval Air Training (CNATRA) production 
assignments until the member either retires, voluntarily withdraws from the 
PFI program or fails to meet performance standards for continued PFI duties 
as outlined in paragraph 8.

8.  PFIs play a critical role in the development of our newest aviators, 
therefore the highest standards of performance, safety and instructional 
ability must be maintained.  Continued participation in the PFI program will 
be contingent upon the recommendations of the CO, documented in annual 
fitness reports.  Suspension or removal of the PFI AQD for reasons of 
performance, professional aptitude or safety concerns will be considered by 
the Director of Aviation Warfare Assignments
(PERS-43) at the recommendation of CNATRA.  Officers not recommended to 
continue as a PFI will revert to traditional sea/shore rotational assignments 
based upon needs of the Navy.

9.  Officers may voluntarily return to operational aviation service upon 
completion of at least one qualifying 36-month PFI assignment.

10.  For further program details, eligibility and application procedures, 
visit the Navy Personnel Command Aviation Bonus website at 
https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/Detailing/aviation/Pa
ges/Professional-Flight-Instructor.aspx.

11.  For submission questions, contact LCDR Jeffrey Creighan, PERS-432F, at 
(901) 874-3986/DSN 882, or via e-mail at jeffrey.creighan(at)navy.mil.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
