UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 161901Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 208/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/SUICIDE PREVENTION AND RESPONSE/SAILOR ASSISTANCE AND INTERCEPT FOR 
LIFE//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN raises awareness of existing suicide prevention 
services and announces the Sailor Assistance and Intercept for Life (SAIL) 
Program.  This program enhances the resources available to Sailors and 
provides additional support to commands as they work to successfully 
reintegrate Sailors after receiving mental health intervention.

2.  The SAIL program is a research-based intervention strategy that provides 
rapid assistance, on-going risk assessment and support for Sailors who have 
exhibited suicide-related behaviors.  It uses evidence based tools, the 
Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale and U.S. Department of Veterans 
Affairs Safety Plan, to monitor the needs and provide additional resources to 
Sailors who accept the program.  SAIL case managers will be Fleet and Family 
Support Center (FFSC) counselors and they will initiate and provide 
continuous caring contacts with Sailors as well as maintain a collaborative 
relationship with healthcare providers and command leadership.  They will 
coordinate additional resources for Sailors beyond medical intervention to 
facilitate the success of the Sailor.  SAIL is not designed to replace 
existing services and is not a form of treatment.  It is designed to 
supplement mental health treatment by providing continuous caring contacts 
throughout the critical first 90 days after a suicide related behavior.
    a.  In joint partnership with Chief of Naval Operations, Bureau of 
Medicine and Surgery, Commander Navy Installations Command (CNIC), and Fleet 
and Family Support Programs, the SAIL program is a new suicide prevention 
program that will be phased in at all Navy regions in the coming year.
    b.  SAIL program partners include the FFSC Family Advocacy 
Representative/Clinical Supervisor, Behavioral Health Treatment Provider, and 
the Suicide Prevention Coordinator (SPC).
    c.  Specific program roles and responsibilities are outlined below:
        (1) Command notifies SPC when a suicide-related behavior occurs;
        (2) SPC submits Sailor contact information to the Navy Suicide 
Prevention Branch (OPNAV (N171)) via encrypted e-mail when an suicide-related 
behavior occurs;
        (3) OPNAV (N171) records Sailor contact information and forwards to 
CNIC;
        (4) Headquarters CNIC distributes Sailor information to appropriate 
installation FFSC.
        (5) FFSC Case Manager contacts Sailor and offers SAIL services.  If 
Sailor agrees to participate in the program, contacts will be made at 3, 7, 
14, 30, 60 and 90 days to address safety concerns and service coordination.
    d.  The SAIL program started in the Pacific Northwest Region on 29 August 
2016, with a phased regional rollout plan scheduled for completion by the 
third quarter of fiscal year 2017.

3.  Suicide prevention requires ongoing efforts to promote health and a sense 
of community.  It is a shared responsibility.  Despite the fact that 85 
percent of Sailors say they will seek help if overwhelmed by stress, 2 out of
3 believe there are barriers to seeking help, and 1 in 3 believe their 
shipmates will see them as weak (source:  2012 Behavioral Health QuickPoll).
Leaders play a crucial role in changing these negative perceptions and 
reducing barriers by remaining connected with their people, recognizing signs 
of stress early and helping them feel comfortable and confident in seeking 
help.  Leaders, especially our deckplate leaders who know their teams the 
best, must:
       a.  Build trust through inclusive and supportive culture;
       b.  Ensure Sailors are aware of the services provided by your local 
and embedded mental healthcare providers, FFSC, Military OneSource and the 
absolute confidentiality of our chaplains and get them to these services when 
needed; and
       c.  Support Sailor reintegration.

4.  The point of contact is CAPT Michael Fisher, N171, at (901) 874-6635/DSN
882 or via e-mail at michael.d.fisher(at)navy.mil.

5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
