RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0082 1012145-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 112145Z APR 14 PSN 548110H19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLASS//N01650//

NAVADMIN 082/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/APR//

SUBJ/2014 AMERICAN LEGION SPIRIT OF SERVICE AWARD//

POC/TODD MARTIN/MR./NAVCO/LOC: MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:(901) 874-5805/ 
EMAIL:TODD.MARTIN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  For the 14th consecutive year, the American Legion will present its 
Spirit of Service Award to an enlisted member from each branch of the Armed 
Forces.  The award will be presented by the National Commander, Mr. Dan 
Dellinger, at the Legion's national convention in Charlotte, North Carolina 
22-28 August 2014.

2.  Eligibility.  Nominees must be E-5 or below, may be active or reserve, 
and must be outstanding military professionals.  The main criteria of the 
award is the level of off-duty, volunteer community service.  Examples 
include but are not limited to:  reading to children at a school; working in 
a homeless or animal shelter; adopt-a-highway efforts; or tutoring shipmates 
in their pursuit of higher education.  There is no periodicity of the award, 
and longevity of volunteer efforts is desired.  Previous winners of this 
award are not eligible.  If chosen as the recipient, the awardee must attend 
the convention.

3.  Nominations.  Nomination packages must contain four elements: the 
Commanding Officer's (CO) nomination; a description of the volunteer service 
performed; a biography of the Sailor; and a high-resolution photograph of the 
Sailor. 

    a.  CO nomination.  COs may nominate one Sailor from their command.  
Nominations must be on command letterhead and indicate the CO's confidence in 
the Sailor's professionalism and as a representative of the Navy, the 
validity of the Sailor's volunteer efforts, and a commitment to facilitate 
their nominee's attendance at the national convention, if selected.  
Endorsements are not required.

    b.  Volunteer efforts.  Description of volunteer efforts must include 
quantitative data such as hours, days, months, or years spent volunteering.  
Qualitative highlights may also be provided that present anecdotal evidence 
of impact upon a community.  Examples include newspaper articles, thank you 
letters, or other recognition. This description may be provided in either 
narrative or bullet format.

    c.  Nominee biography.  If chosen as the award recipient, the biography 
will be used in the Legion's magazine and convention program.  The biography 
should include hometown information as well as professional highlights and 
qualifications, but should focus on volunteer service. 

    d.  High-resolution photograph.  A photo must also be included for use in 
the publications.  The biography and photo should be similar to those 
commonly associated with CO biographies. 

4.  Nomination submission.  Nominations must be received by 30 May 2014 to 
meet the Legion's deadline.  Nominations may be submitted electronically 
(preferred) to the Point of Contact or hard copy to the following address:

Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO)
Attn: Spirit of Service Award
5722 Integrity Drive (456-3)
Millington, TN 38054-5045

5.  Selection process.  NAVCO will consolidate all nominations, organize a 
ranking board, and recommend the top candidates to the American Legion, which 
will make the selection.  NAVCO will inform the winner and notify those not 
selected.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#1976
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
