RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2351820-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 231820Z AUG 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01720//

NAVADMIN 212/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG// 

SUBJ/NAVY SUICIDE PREVENTION MONTH// 

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces September as Navy Suicide Prevention Month 
and the launch pad for year-long efforts to build resilience and unit 
cohesion, navigate stress, and promote a culture supportive of seeking help 
as a sign of strength.  

2.  Navy's suicide prevention effort is an All Hands evolution, all of the 
time.  The bond between leadership and the deck plate starts with leadership 
engagement and efforts to foster trusting relationships between Sailors and 
their surrounding environments.  Prevention goes beyond training to being 
able to recognize risk factors, warning signs, and understanding what to do 
in a crisis situation.  While these are critical elements, a sense of 
community and belonging ultimately help Sailors make the decision to seek 
assistance during challenging times so they do not succumb to stress and 
hopelessness.  

3.  The 2013 Navy Suicide Prevention Month theme "Thrive in Your Community," 
is based on the importance of community and self-purpose when dealing with 
adversity.  This year's efforts encourage Sailors to engage with one another 
and make a difference to those around them; shipmates reaching out to 
shipmates.  By helping others, we help ourselves.  Building resilience is not 
just about recovering from challenges; it is about growing from them to 
emerge stronger.  

4.  Sailors are encouraged to come together as commands, work-centers 
installations, organizations or other groups to contribute to a project of 
their choice that benefits others.  Family and Navy community involvement is 
encouraged.  Participation in projects and volunteerism is not mandatory and 
there is no minimum requirement for engagement.  Commands are encouraged to 
share their events with suicideprevention(at)navy.mil.

5.  To facilitate raising collective awareness, suicide prevention tools and 
resources are available for commands to use during September to spark 
meaningful discussion and engagement.  Fact sheets, plan of the day notes, 
awareness products and additional resources for local involvement will be 
available on www.suicide.navy.mil.  Resources will be tailored to focus on 
stress navigation and wellness, as well as risk and protective factors for 
suicide.  A sense of community will be highlighted as a significant 
protective factor, helping Sailors thrive, not just survive.  Command suicide 
prevention coordinators will also be available to help organize local 
efforts. 

6.  Whether you work with your Coalition of Sailors Against Destructive 
Decisions chapter to hold an awareness walk/run in support of suicide 
prevention, or volunteer on a project as a command, you are investing time in 
others as well as time for yourself.  Shipmates that are willing to help one 
another are more likely to be willing to receive help in return.

7.  Life counts.  It takes honor, courage, and commitment to prevent suicide 
and simple acts of kindness make a difference.  Seeking help is a sign of 
strength and by helping others we help ourselves.  

8.  Point of contact is CAPT Kurt Scott, N171A Suicide Prevention, at
(901) 874-6635 or via email at kurt.scott(at)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0000
NNNN

