UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 061622Z APR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 079/15

SUBJ/FY-15 ADVANCED EDUCATION VOUCHER PROGRAM//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//
REF/A/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/181833ZNOV04//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/29MAR05/NOTAL//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 263/04, PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION CONTINUUM 
ANNOUNCEMENT.  REF B IS OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS N13 POLICY 
DECISION MEMO, ENLISTED ADVANCED EDUCATION SERVICE OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the FY-15 Advanced Education Voucher (AEV) 
Program.  The AEV program is part of the Professional Military Education 
continuum, announced by reference (a).  The AEV Program offers advanced 
education opportunities and provides financial assistance to senior enlisted 
personnel (E7-E9) to complete post-secondary, Navy-relevant degrees, in 
designated areas of study through off-duty education.

2.  Proven superior performers who demonstrate potential for continued upward 
mobility are eligible as follows:  E7 with no more than 17 years time in 
service (TIS), E8 with no more than 19 years TIS and E9 with no more than 23 
years TIS.  TIS for all pay grades is computed to 1 October 2015.  Applicants 
should be transferring to, or currently on shore duty with sufficient time 
ashore to complete a baccalaureate or master's degree program.  Applicants on 
sea duty may apply provided they submit an education plan that shows the 
ability to complete the degree program as specified above. Additionally, 
senior enlisted who have already invested in their professional development 
by pursuing college education and are currently enrolled in a qualifying 
post-secondary degree program using tuition assistance (TA) or other 
financial assistance programs are eligible to apply for the AEV program.  
Reimbursement for any educational expenses incurred prior to participation in 
AEV is not authorized.  AEV and TA benefits may not be combined.  AEV is not 
authorized for courses used to earn an additional degree at the same or lower 
education level.  Lower division or prerequisite courses may be authorized if 
the courses are part of a Sailor's degree program and are listed on their 
approved education plan.

3.  AEV for a baccalaureate degree completion will cover 100 percent of 
tuition, books, and related fees up to 6,700 dollars per year for a maximum 
of 36 months from the date of signing a letter of acceptance.  Total program 
cost per participant will not exceed 20,000 dollars.  At a minimum, 
baccalaureate degree completion program applicants must have either an 
associate's degree from an institution of higher learning accredited by an 
agency recognized by the Department of Education or the equivalent amount of 
college credit already earned and applicable to the degree being sought. Only 
Navy-relevant baccalaureate degrees will be considered and examples are as 
follows:  Strategic Foreign Languages, Construction Management, Emergency and 
Disaster Management, Human Resources, Paralegal, Leadership and Management, 
Engineering, Information Technology, Nursing, Business Administration, and 
Electrical and Electronic Technology.  Degree programs other than those 
listed above must be validated as a Navy-relevant degree by the AEV point of 
contact listed below.

4.  AEV for the master's degree completion will cover 100 percent tuition, 
books and related fees up to a maximum of 20,000 dollars per year for up to 
24 months from the date of signing a letter of acceptance.  Total program 
costs per participant will not exceed 40,000 dollars.  Master's degree 
program applicants must have a baccalaureate degree from an institution of 
higher learning accredited by an agency recognized by the Department of 
Education. Only Navy-relevant master's degrees will be considered and 
examples are as follows:  Emergency and Disaster Management, Human Resources, 
Project Management, Engineering and Technology, Systems Analysis, Information 
Technology, Homeland Defense and Security, Leadership and Management, 
Business Administration, and Education and Training Management.  Degree 
programs other than those listed above must be validated as a Navy-relevant 
degree by the AEV point of contact listed below.

5.  Per reference (b), upon completion of, or withdrawal from, education for 
which any authorized expenses were paid, participants shall agree to remain 
on active-duty for a period equal to three times the number of months of 
education completed or three years, whichever is less.  This obligation is 
discharged concurrently with any other service obligation program 
participants may have already incurred.  This agreement does not obligate the 
Navy to retain a member on active-duty.  If a program participant fails to 
complete the period of active-duty specified in the agreement, such member 
will reimburse the United States for the cost of the advanced education 
received, prorated for the obligated time served.

6.  The Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy will convene the FY-15 AEV 
Program Selection Board in June 2015.  Program selectees are expected to 
enroll in studies for the Fall 2015 term.

7.  Naval Education and Training Command (NETC) (N523) is now accepting AEV 
program applications from eligible senior enlisted personnel.  Deadline for 
submission is 22 May 2015.  Applications must include endorsements by both 
the commanding officer and command master chief (maximum length one page 
each).  Application format and additional information can be found at
https://www.navycollege.navy.mil/aev/aev_home.aspx.

8.  Point of contact is ETCM Richard Simpson, NETC N523, at (850) 452-7268/ 
DSN 459 or via e-mail at richard.l.simpson(at)navy.mil.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 31 December 2015, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
