UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 012019Z JUL 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 153/15

SUBJ/FY-16 MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM SELECTION 
BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//
REF/B/DOC/BUMED/11JUN15//
REF/C/DOC/TITLE 10 U.S.C./03JAN12//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION MANUAL.  REFERENCE B IS BUMED P-117, MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL 
DEPARTMENT.  REFERENCE C IS 10 U.S.C. 6323, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENTOFFICERS:  20 
YEARS.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the FY-16 Medical Service 
Corps (MSC) In-Service Procurement Program (IPP) Selection Board.  The MSC 
IPP will convene in the Fall of 2015.  MSC IPP provides a path for qualified, 
career-motivated, enlisted personnel to obtain a commission as an MSC 
officer.  Applications will be accepted for the following specialties:  
Health Care Administration (HCA), Environmental Health, Industrial Hygiene, 
Pharmacy, Physician Assistant (PA), Occupational Therapy, Social Work, and 
Radiation Health.

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors, Marines, and Navy 
Full-Time Support (FTS) personnel of any rating in paygrades E-5 through E-9 
at the time of application.  Waivers for personnel in the paygrade of E-4 
will be considered on a case by case basis for PA applicants only.  
Reservists in an FTS status are eligible; reservists in any status other than 
FTS are not eligible.

3.  Application procedures and education requirements are outlined in 
reference (a), chapters 1, 2, and 6, and this NAVADMIN.

4.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment and commissioning.  Age waivers will not be granted.

5.  Amplifying information for the FY-16 MSC IPP Board.
    a.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a Navy 
Nuclear Enlisted Classification (335x, 336x, 338x, 339x) and are applying for 
the FY-16 MSC IPP Board must obtain conditional release from nuclear field 
duty prior to submitting their application for consideration for the FY-16 
board.  To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must submit a NAVPERS 
1306/7, (rev 01-03), Enlisted Personnel Action Request to the OPNAV Nuclear
Propulsion Program Management Branch (N133) via their detailer (Pers-403).  
The FY-16 MSC IPP Board will only consider nuclear enlisted candidates who 
have a conditional release included in their MSC IPP application.
    b.  For applicants not assigned to nuclear programs listed in paragraph 
5.a.:  applicants under obligated training require a conditional release from 
their enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7, (rev 01-03) Enlisted Personnel Action 
Request to their ECM.  The FY-16 MSC IPP board will only consider enlisted 
candidates who have a conditional release included in their program 
application.
    c.  Physical standards.  Applicants must be worldwide assignable.  Per 
reference (a), chapter 6 paragraph 3.e., applicants must meet 
precommissioning/accession physical standards for appointment as an MSC 
officer prescribed in reference (b), chapter

15.
    d.  Test scores.  ACT, SAT, graduate record examination (GRE), graduate 
management aptitude test (GMAT), or applicable scores must be completed 
within five years of application due date.
    e.  College board (SAT or ACT) exam scores are required for all 
applicants requesting to complete a bachelor degree using military funding.  
The minimum acceptable SAT score is 1000 and the minimum ACT score is 42 
(combined math and English).  Application packages missing exam scores will 
not be considered by the board.
    f.  GRE or GMAT scores are required for all applicants requesting to 
complete a masters degree using military funding (excluding pharmacy).  For 
non-masters prepared applicants, a GRE score of 1000 (pre August 2012 exams) 
or 300 (post August 2012 exams) or a GMAT score of 500 is required.
Application packages missing exam scores will not be considered by the board.
    g.  For applicants applying to the PA program, only SAT scores will be 
accepted.  The minimum acceptable SAT score is 1000 (minimum math 460).  
Applications with an SAT math score below 460 will not be considered by the 
board.
    h.  Pharmacy applicants must submit pharmacy college admission test 
scores.

6.  For HCA applicants, MSC IPP is not offering full-time out service 
training option for this board.  Applicants will be screened for selection to 
attend full-time in-service training in either the Army-Baylor University 
graduate program in HCA, more information is available at
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/navmedmpte/nmtc/pages/bayloruniversity.aspx or 
the masters in HCA and policy degree at the Uniformed Services University of 
the Health Sciences, more information is available at 
http://www.usuhs.mil/pmb/mhapcurriculum.html.  A GRE or GMAT score is 
required for all applicants irrespective of degrees currently held.  In 
addition, applicants are strongly encouraged to seek conditional letters of 
acceptance from one or both schools for inclusion in their IPP package.  If 
HCA applicants are selected this does not guarantee screening into one of the 
above graduate programs.

7.  For HCA applicants seeking entry grade credit upon selection, masters 
degree must be obtained prior to June 2016, must have an emphasis in HCA, and 
must be accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies:  Commission on 
Accreditation of Health Care Management Education, more information is 
available at http://www.cahme.org; the Association to Advance Collegiate 
Schools of Business, more information is available at http://www.aacsb.edu; 
the Council on Education for Public Health, more information is available at 
http://www.ceph.org; National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and 
Administration, more information is available at http://www.naspaa.org.

8.  For PA applicants, to determine an applicants academic eligibility by the 
degree-granting institution, applicants must submit their official 
transcripts and a complete list of all schools attended to the Navy Medicine 
Professional Development Center (NMPDC), more information is available at 
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/navmedmpte/nmtc/pages/ipap.aspx, NLT 25 July 
2015.  Points of contact for NMPDC are listed in paragraph 12 of this 
NAVADMIN. Note this is not the deadline for submission of an official MSC IPP 
application, only the applicants academic history.  Applicants will be 
notified of their academic eligibility well before the official MSC IPP 
application deadline.

9.  Applicants for the Occupational Therapy program must have an acceptance 
letter to a master's degree program in occupational therapy that has been 
accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education, 
Visit http://www.aota.org for more information.

10.  Applicants for the 24 month social work (MSW) internship must have a 
master's degree in social work from a graduate school of social work 
accredited by the Council of Social Work Education at http://www.cswe.org, 
with a completion date NLT June 2016. Candidates with strong clinical 
backgrounds are preferred, with preference given to those able to demonstrate 
experience and proficiency in diagnosis and treatment, trauma, post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injury (TBI), and resiliency.  A 
licensed graduate social worker or equivalent is required for internship in 
states that license post-msw social workers.

11.  For Social Work (MSW + Internship) applicants, MSC IPP is not offering a 
full-time out-service training option for this board; however, applicants 
will be screened for selection to attend the full-time in-service training at 
the Army/Fayetteville State University Master of Social Work (MSW) Program. 
More information is available online (http://www.uncfsu.edu/sw/academic- 
programs/army-fsu-msw-program) or via phone at (210) 221-6158. Requirements 
for consideration into the Army/Fayetteville State University MSW Program 
include:  a completed Fayetteville State University Graduate School 
application for admission, an undergraduate grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 
or higher, an official Graduate Record Exam (GRE) score of 290 or higher
(completed within five years of program start date), a personal statement of 
no more than five typed, double-spaced  pages, and three letters of reference 
from professionals who can attest to the applicant's capabilities for 
successful performance in a graduate academic program, and three Fayetteville 
State University Recommendations for Graduate Studies forms.

12.  Per references (a) and (c), applicants are reminded that to be eligible 
for voluntary retirement, an applicant appointed as an officer is required to 
complete 20 years of active-duty service, with at least ten years of service 
as an active commissioned officer (unless waived to eight years).

13.  Applications must be postmarked NLT 1 September 2015 and mailed to:
     Commanding Officer, Navy Medicine Professional Development
     Center
     Attn:  Code 03C HMDT
     8955 Wood Road, Bldg. 1,
     Bethesda, MD 20889-5628

All required documentation must be received NLT 15 October 2015. Incomplete 
applications received after this date will not be reviewed by the board.  
Detailed application information can be found at 
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/nmpdc/professional-
Development/sitepages/medical%20service%20corps%20program%20mscipp-pa.aspx.  
A MARADMIN will outline conditional release procedures for active-duty 
Marines who are selected to participate in the program.

14.  Points of Contact:
    a.  Ms. Kemp, Navy Medical Professional Development Center, Code O3C HMDT 
at (301) 319-4520/DSN 285, or via e-mail at beverly.d.kemp.civ(at)mail.mil.
    b.  HM2 Clark at (301) 295-0925/DSN 295 or via e-mail at 
benjamin.m.clark30(at)mail.mil.

15.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2016.

16.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
