UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 011824Z NOV 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 268/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/REMOVAL OF AUTOMATIC CANCELLATION PROVISION AND REVISION OF AGE 
REQUIREMENT OF INSTRUCTIONS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/OCT//

REF/A/OPNAVINST 5215.17A

REF/B/OPNAV MANUAL 5215.1

REF/C/SECNAVINST 5215.1E

REF/D/DOD INSTRUCTION 5025.01

NARR/REF A IS THE NAVY DIRECTIVES MANAGEMENT PROGRAM INSTRUCTION OF
26 MAY 2016.  REF B IS THE NAVY
DIRECTIVES MANAGEMENT PROGRAM MANUAL OF 26 MAY 2016.  REF C IS THE SECRETARY 
OF THE NAVY DIRECTIVES POLICY INSTRUCTION OF 28 OCTOBER 2014 WITH CHANGE 
TRANSMITTAL 1 OF 15 SEP 2017.  REF D IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ISSUANCES 
POLICY OF 1 AUGUST 2016 WITH CHANGE 2 OF 22 DECEMER 2017.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the revision of reference (a) and reference 
(b) regarding the automatic cancellation provision of instructions and the 
age requirement of instructions.

2.  As of this date, per reference (c) and reference (d), the automatic 
cancellation provision of OPNAV instructions over the allowable age 
requirement is removed from reference (a) and reference (b).
OPNAV instructions signed and effective prior to 26 May 2016, and those first 
under consideration after this date will not be considered as automatically 
cancelled.  These instructions remain in full effect unless separately 
superseded or cancelled via a revision and reissuance or a cancellation 
action memorandum or cancellation notice.

3.  As of this date, in line with reference (d), the age requirement of all 
types of instructions (to include letter-type, manual-type, and joints in 
which the Navy command is the lead Service or component) is 10 years.
As a reminder, lower echelon commands and activities may be more restrictive 
than their higher authority echelon command in regards to the age of their 
respective instructions.

4.  Paragraph 17 of reference (a) is revised to:  "Per this instruction, DNS-
15 Directives will review this instruction annually around the anniversary of 
its issuance date to ensure applicability, currency, and consistency with 
Federal, DoD, SECNAV, and Navy policy and statutory authority using OPNAV 
5215/40 Review of Instruction.  This instruction will be in effect for 10 
years, unless revised or cancelled in the interim, and will be reissued by 
the 10-year anniversary date if it is still required, unless it meets one of 
the exceptions in OPNAVINST 5215.17A, paragraph 9.  Otherwise, if the 
instruction is no longer required, it will be processed for cancellation as 
soon as the need for cancellation is known following the guidance in OPNAV 
Manual 5215.1 of May 2016."

5.  The verbiage of the required "Review and Effective Date"
paragraph, per references (a) and (b), is revised
to:  "Per OPNAVINST 5215.17A, (responsible organization) will review this 
instruction annually around the anniversary of its issuance date to ensure 
applicability, currency, and consistency with Federal, Department of Defense, 
Secretary of the Navy, and Navy policy and statutory authority using OPNAV 
5215/40 Review of Instruction.  This instruction will be in effect for 10 
years, unless revised or cancelled in the interim, and will be reissued by 
the 10-year anniversary date if it is still required, unless it meets one of 
the exceptions in OPNAVINST 5215.17A, paragraph 9.  Otherwise, if the 
instruction is no longer required, it will be processed for cancellation as 
soon as the need for cancellation is known following the guidance in OPNAV 
Manual 5215.1 of May 2016."

6.  Per reference (a), the current paragraph 8, "Instruction Age Requirement, 
Cancellations, and Revisions,"
is revised as follows:
    a.  Ten years from the date of issuance, an instruction that has
    not been revised (as contrasted with changed, such as a change 
transmittal as per subparagraph 8h) requires revision and reissuance, if it 
is still required, or cancellation, unless it meets one of the exceptions in 
paragraph

9.
    b.  If, by the age requirement anniversary date, an instruction
    is considered to be valid and current and a revision is not required, at 
a minimum, the instruction must be reissued under the next alphabetical 
suffix with a new date and signature.
    c.  At any time an instruction is determined to require a
    revision or cancellation, the instruction must be processed for revision 
or cancellation as soon as the need for revision or cancellation is known.
    d.  If an instruction is not revised, reissued, or cancelled by
    its age requirement anniversary date, and it does not meet one of the 
exceptions in paragraph 9, it will be processed for cancellation by the 
command or activity DCP (directives manager).
    e.  The cancellation process must include review and concurrence
    by all major stakeholder commands/activities, and must include an 
appropriate legal review.  Refer to reference (b), chapter 1, paragraph 4, 
exhibits 1-1 and 1-2, and appendix C for further guidance on cancelling an 
instruction.
    f.  If an instruction is cancelled and its continued use is
    required, it must be processed as a "new" instruction with the next 
available point number.
    g.  The final "ready-for-signature" draft of the reissuance must
    be submitted to the command or activity directives control point (DCP) 
(directives manager) for directives compliance review and signature clearance 
no later than the age requirement anniversary date of the current issuance.
    h.  Change transmittals do not suffice as a revision and
    reissuance of a Navy instruction.  Hence, the date of a change 
transmittal is not considered the issuance date or revision date of an 
instruction; the date of the initial basic version of an instruction is the 
actual issuance date.
    i.  All Navy notices are self-cancelling and cannot be in effect
    for more than 1 year.  If a contingency has not been met within the 
contingency period (no more than 1 year), a new notice with a new date and 
signature must be reissued, or serious consideration should be given in 
issuing the notice as an instruction instead."

7.  With an allowable 10-year age requirement for instructions, extensions 
will no longer be allowed.  The title of paragraph 9 of reference (a) will 
change from "Exceptions to the Instruction 5-Year Age Requirement" to 
"Exceptions to the Instruction 10-Year Age Requirement."  The subparagraphs 
of paragraph 9 are revised to the following:
    a.  Joint Inter-Service and Multi-Service Instructions.  If Navy
    is not the lead Service of a joint and multi-Service instruction, the 
joint instruction will follow the lead Service?s age requirement (in addition 
to the lead Service?s format).
    b.  Joint Intra-Navy Instructions.  The age of a joint intra-Navy
    instruction will follow the age requirement of the lead Navy component 
command.
    c.  Other Manuals and Publications.  The age requirement does not
    apply to "stand-alone" manuals and publications outside of the Navy 
directives system.  Stand-alone manuals and publications are those that are 
not identified as a Navy "instruction" ("INST") or a "notice" ("NOTE").
    d.  Legal and Special Exceptions.  Exceptions may be made to the
    cancellation process where legal requirements or other special situations 
dictate continuance.  The justification for these legal requirements and 
special situations must be documented by the command?s or activity's DCP 
(directives
manager) and undergo an appropriate legal review.
    e.  Navy Echelon 2 and Below Commands and Activities with a More
    Restrictive Age Requirement of Their Local Command or Activity 
Instructions.  Extension requests are allowed for lower Navy echelon commands 
and activities with a more restrictive age requirement.  However, no more 
than two extensions should be allowed, and each extension should not be for 
more than 12 months.  In addition, each extension request should be approved 
by the appropriate authority, such as the signature authority of the 
instruction (i.e., the position title that signed the current instruction) 
for the first extension and the commander or commanding officer for the 
second extension.
    f.  Current OPNAV Instruction Taskers Based on the Previous 5
    -Year Age Requirement.  DNS taskers submitted to OPNAV sponsors prior to 
the date of this NAVADMIN for the revision and reissuance, consolidation, or 
cancellation of OPNAV instructions over the previous 5-year age requirement 
must be completed by the tasker due dates, to include any approved extension 
requests."

8.  References (a) and (b) will be revised to reflect the changes in this 
NAVADMIN.

9.  References (a) and (b) may be accessed via Department of the Navy 
Issuances Web site (http://doni.documentservices.dla.mil/).

10.  Released by RDML W. G. Mager for Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

