UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 111807Z OCT 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

NAVADMIN 253/18

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/OCT//

SUBJ/ENLISTED CYBER MASTERS DEGREE OPPORTUNITY AT NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30JAN07//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/07JAN15//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.8A, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS PROGRAM.  REF B 
IS OPNAVINST 1520.23C, GRADUATE EDUCATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits enlisted member applications for enrollment 
in the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) 12-month Master of Science in Applied 
Cyber Operations.  This program is one of many efforts to increase Cyber 
capabilities for the Navy while building a professional Cyber workforce.

2.  Selectees will be assigned to Navy-funded education as full-time students 
under permanent change of station orders to Monterey, CA with either a 
September 2019 or March 2020 start.  As full-time students, Sailors will be 
required to carry a full academic load year-round.  Degree requirements 
should be completed in 12 months.

3.  This program is only available to active-duty and Full-Time Support 
members in the Information Systems Technician (IT) and Cryptologic 
Technician-Networks ratings who meet the following criteria:
    a.  Must possess a Bachelor of Science degree in a relevant technical 
field including, but not limited to, computer science, electrical 
engineering, and information or engineering technology.  The degree must have 
been awarded by an institution of higher learning accredited by a regional 
accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.  To meet 
NPS academic requirements, performance in technical courses, including 
mathematics, must be exemplary.
    b.  Must be an E6 or above eligible for Continental United States shore 
assignment between April and December 2019 for the September 2019 start or 
between October 2019 and June 2020 for the March 2020 start.
    c.  Must be eligible to incur a 5 year active-duty service obligation by 
reenlistment or extension of enlistment prior to NPS enrollment.  Selectees 
will be required to reenlist more than 1 year earlier if they are unable to 
satisfy the 5 year obligated service requirement with an aggregate of 48 or 
fewer months of extensions.  An extension will become binding upon enrollment 
at NPS.  Pursuant to reference (a), payment of the selective reenlistment 
bonus is not authorized for selectees who reenlist for the purpose of meeting 
the obligated service requirement.
    d.  Must be within physical fitness assessment (PFA) standards with no 
PFA failures within the last 3 years.
    e.  Must have no evaluation marks below 3.0 within the last 5 years.
    f.  Must hold or be eligible for a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented 
Information (TS/SCI) clearance.  Applicants without a current TS/SCI 
clearance are still encouraged to apply, but should work with their special 
security office to initiate the clearance request.  Orders to NPS will not be 
issued until TS/SCI clearance is finalized.
    g.  Must possess a conditional letter of acceptance.  To obtain a 
conditional letter of acceptance, Sailors should apply to NPS at 
http://www.nps.edu/academics/admissions/applyonline/applynow.html.  Once 
registered, Sailors should select Applied Cyber Operations, curriculum number 
336.  Upon application submission, Sailors must arrange for the submission of 
official transcripts to the NPS admissions office from each institution 
attended for all undergraduate and graduate education, as well as all 
Sailor/Marine American Council on Education Registry Transcripts or Joint 
Services Transcripts.  Applications must be submitted to NPS no later than 31 
December 2018.  Sailors will be notified by NPS via e-mail regarding their 
conditional acceptance.

4.  Upon selection, member must request (via command career counselor) an  
in-rate quota in the Career Waypoints (C-WAY) System.  Those members not in 
their C-WAY window should submit a "special circumstance" application 
indicating reason code of "other" and the career counselor will be prompted 
to add a note indicating selection to the Master of Science in Applied Cyber 
Operations Program.  If selected via "special circumstance" application, this 
program does not guarantee awarding of an in-rate C-WAY quota and is not 
considered part of a performance indicator of the individual in the C-WAY 
process.

5.  Prospective applicants should contact their detailers immediately to 
inform of intent to apply for program and potential impact to current 
assignment.  Failure to do so may result in withdrawal of selection.  
Graduation of the program will impact follow-on tour, and may result in 
limited detailing opportunities for future assignments.

6.  Graduates of the Master of Science in Applied Cyber Operations program 
will earn the H07A Navy Enlisted Classification (previously 2770-Applied 
Cyber Operations Master) and should expect to serve in a utilization tour 
immediately following graduation.  Utilization tours shall include 
operational (Cyber) shore billets and sea billets (when available) for ITs.  
Further utilization for program graduates will be appropriately balanced with 
other priorities such as career progression, sea/shore tour rotation, etc.

7.  Applications can be sent via encrypted e-mail to 
curtis.bogetto(at)navy.mil or via AMRDEC SAFE 
(https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/SAFE/Welcome.aspx).

8.  Eligible Sailors should forward a written request via their Commanding 
Officer.  The nomination template is posted to the Navy Information Warfare 
Outreach page on milSuite at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-526186 
(Common Access Card e-mail certificate login required).

9.  The endorsement of the Commanding Officer should address the preparedness 
of members for this significant academic opportunity, ability to work 
independently, communication skills, potential for increased responsibilities 
and any special considerations.

10.  Prior application submissions to this program do not disqualify a Sailor 
from applying.  However, applicants who did not receive conditional 
acceptance from NPS and have no additional academic qualifications should not 
apply again, as the academic standards have not changed.

11.  Selection results will be disseminated via NAVADMIN.  Due to the highly 
competitive nature of this program, notification of selection via NAVADMIN is 
a binding commitment that selectees must accept or decline within five 
working days following release of the message.

12.  Point of contact is Mr. Curtis Bogetto who can be reached at (703) 604-
6289/DSN 664 or via e-mail at curtis.bogetto(at)navy.mil.

13.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 June 2020, 
whichever occurs first.

14.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

