UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 251625Z AUG 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 207/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/FEBRUARY 2018 CYCLE 102 NAVY-WIDE EXAMINATIONS FOR ADVANCEMENT OF 
SELECTED RESERVE PERSONNEL TO E4 THROUGH E7//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/252221ZJUN10//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131544ZDEC07//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  
REF B IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION 
REQUIREMENTS UNCLASSIFIED.  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 215/10, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND ADVANCEMENT GUIDANCE FOR 
INDIVIDUAL AUGMENTEE SAILORS.  
REF D IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM 
FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for administration of Cycle 102 
Navy-Wide Advancement Examinations (NWAE) for advancement in rate of Selected 
Reserve (SELRES) personnel.  Information pertaining to selection board 
criteria will be promulgated via a future NAVADMIN.
    a.  SELRES exams will be administered in February 2018.
    b.  All candidates serving on voluntary recall or mobilization
will compete for advancement as a SELRES.
    c.  This NAVADMIN supplements reference (a).
    d.  In addition to the requirements set forth in chapter 6 of reference 
(a), educational services officers (ESO) must follow the pre-exam preparation 
requirements in the exam verbatim located at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.

2.  Eligibility Requirements.  For all E4-E7 candidates, eligibility 
requirements are found in chapter 2 of reference (a), with the following 
information specific only to Cycle 102:
    a.  Candidates must meet the basic eligibility requirements outlined in 
chapter 2 of reference (a) and this message prior to 1 February 2018 to be 
considered as a candidate.  Candidates who do not meet the eligibility 
requirements are ineligible for Cycle 102 NWAE and shall not be administered 
an advancement examination.
    b.  The terminal eligibility date used to compute time-in-rate (TIR) for 
E4-E6 is 1 July 2018 and for E7 is 1 January 2019.
    c.  The minimum TIR date must be on or before:
        E7 - 1 January 2016
        E6 - 1 July 2015
        E5 - 1 July 2017
        E4 - 1 January 2018
    d.  E6 and E7 candidate TIR requirements for early promote Sailors can be 
waived for one year with commanding officer (CO)/officer-in-charge approval.
    e.  High-year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver for E4-E6 must be 
effective 1 July 2018 or later.  HYT date or approved HYT waiver for E7 must 
be effective 1 September 2018 or later.  HYT waiver must be approved prior to 
1 February 2018.
    f.  Candidates who have submitted a formal written request for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) or fleet reserve on a 
date prior to their mandated HYT are ineligible for advancement.
    g.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security clearance must have a 
favorable investigation adjudication issued by the Department of Defense 
Central Adjudication Facility and it must be reflected properly in Joint 
Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) prior to 1 February 2018.  If the CO of 
the candidate grants an interim clearance, JPAS must be updated prior to 1 
February 2018. Once Sailors have a clearance they must maintain that 
clearance eligibility.  If for any reason a clearance is denied or revoked, 
an exam is not authorized until a new clearance is granted.  Ratings 
requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, 
AZ, CTI, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, ETR, ETV, FC, GM, HT, IS, IT, LN, MA, MC, 
MM,  MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and YN. Refer to reference (b) for 
additional guidance.
    h.  Change of rating and retention approvals must be approved and 
completed no later than 31 January 2018.  This includes approvals from Navy 
Personnel Command, "A" schools, etc.
    i.  Compute performance mark average (PMA) using all evaluations in the 
current rank of the candidate with an ending date that falls within the 
following time periods:
        E7 exam - 1 February 2015 to 31 December 2017
        E6 exam - 1 February 2015 to 31 January 2018
        E5 exam - 1 February 2017 to 31 January 2018
        E4 exam - 1 June 2017 to 31 January 2018
    j.  For additional guidance on computing PMA, refer to reference (a), 
chapter 3.  For PMA guidance for individual augmentee (IA) Sailors refer to 
reference (c).
    k.  Branch class and Special Program Indicator (SPI) code:  All SELRES 
are required to take a SELRES NWAE except Full Time Support (FTS) and 
personnel with a SPI code W.  A SELRES with SPI code W is a Canvasser 
Recruiter who takes the Active/FTS NWAE in line with NAVADMIN 175/17.
    l.  Candidates must meet special requirements (citizenship, security 
clearance, medical, etc.) for certain ratings as outlined in paragraph 204 of 
reference (a), prior to 1 February 2018.
    m.  Cryptologic Technician Interpretive (CTI) Sailors must achieve a 
minimum of L2/R2 on the Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) in their 
primary language, as assigned by their CO, within 12 months of NWAE.  Any CTI 
whose primary language DLPT is over 12 months old must receive an advancement 
cycle participation waiver from the Navy Foreign Language Office (OPNAV 
N13F12).
    n.  Sailors assigned to a submarine source rating must be fully 
qualified, in line with the Submarine Qualifications Designation for Enlisted 
Members (MILPERSMAN 1220-040).

3.  Rating Specific Information
    a.  To be eligible for advancement to E7:
        (1) Air Traffic Controllers (AC) must possess a valid AC specialist 
certificate (FAA 7220-1) and meet requirements established in the Manual of 
the Medical Department.
        (2) Aerographers Mate (AG) must have the Meteorological and 
Oceanographic Forecaster Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) 7412.
        (3) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel must hold the Senior 
EOD Technician (NEC 5335) or the Master EOD Technician (NEC 5337) prior to 
the E7 board convening date.
        (4) Navy Diver (ND) personnel must hold the first class diver NEC 
5342 prior to the E7 board convening date.
    b.  Commands must verify and invalidate examination results for those 
selection board eligible Sailors who fail to meet these qualifications.
    c.  Aviation Electronics Technician (AT) examinations. Administer ATI 
(Intermediate) examinations for intermediate maintenance personnel and ATO 
(Organizational) examinations for organizational maintenance personnel.  
Personnel will continue to be tested via two separate examinations, but will 
be merged together for advancement purposes.

4.  Exam Ordering
    a.  Deploying commands can order exams up to 6 months prior to the 
scheduled exam date.  Exams required prior to the TIR list opening are 
ordered via message or in the preferred message format via e-mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil following the guidelines in chapter 4 and 
figure 4-1 of reference (a).  Specify in the subject line the order request 
is for early exams.  Ensure a point of contact (POC) is included in the 
message.  Refer to reference (d) for IA Sailors who are pending deployment 
to, or are deployed to and operating in, a Congressionally Designated Combat
Zone and Approved Contingency Operations Area.
    b.  Cryptologic Technician-Interpretive (CTI)/Cryptologic Technician-
Network (CTN)/Cryptologic Technician-Collection (CTR), Sensitive 
Compartmented Information (SCI) exam ordering dates can be found on the Navy 
Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) website at 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
        (1) ESOs must verify TIR eligibility lists on NEAS Web for initial 
exam ordering.
        (2) Additional exams are ordered via message or in message format via 
e-mail to sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil following the guidelines in 
chapter 4 of reference (a).  Commands must include their Department of 
Defense Activity Address Code (DODAAC) account number, POC, and the number of 
exams required.  DODACC commands requesting the forwarding of exams should 
include the forwarding command as an info addressee on the message.  The 
deadline for additional orders is 1 January 2018.
    c.  Exam ordering for non-SCI exams begins 26 November 2017. ESOs must 
verify TIR eligibility lists on the NEAS website during the following time 
periods:
        (1) Initial TIR lists will be available 26 November 2017 to 
5 December 2017.
        (2) Eligible candidates that were not added to the initial TIR list 
can be added to a supplemental TIR list.  Additional TIR lists will be 
available 6 December 2017 to 24 January 2018. Deadline to order additional 
SELRES exams is 5 March 2018.
        (3) Exams required after the TIR list has closed as well as exams for 
prior service reenlistment eligibility reserve Sailors should be ordered via 
message or in message format via e-mail to sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil 
following the guidelines in chapter 4 of reference (a).  Ensure a POC is 
included in the message.
    d.  Exams for IA Sailors or recalled reservists will be ordered by the 
command holding the service record of the member.  Authority is granted for 
these candidates to be administered exams with the active-duty candidates.  
However, these candidates are still required to take the Cycle 102 exam and 
not the Cycle 238 (E7) or Cycle 239 (E4-E6) exams.
    e.  When an exam is not used during the normally scheduled event, do not 
destroy the exam prior to 1 April 2018.
    f.  Cycle 102 exams should only be administered during the month of 
February.  A request must be submitted with justification via e- mail to 
sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil for permission to retain exams for 
administration on the next drill weekend in March 2018. Ensure reason for 
requested delay is included.
    g.  ESO must verify the examination order at the View Previous Exam 
Orders link via NEAS Web within 14 days of placing the order. If 
discrepancies are noted, contact Naval Education and Training Professional 
Development Center (NETPDC) Exam Ordering and Discrepancy Administrations 
Branch (NETPDC (N321)).
    h.  Commands must select the appropriate exams for ATI/ATO, commensurate 
with the advancement experience of the candidate.  For all other ratings, 
exam orders must match the rating of the advancement candidate.  For example, 
an Electronics Technician (ET) cannot take an Electronics Technician-
Submarine Navigation (ETV) or Electronics Technician-Submarine Communications 
(ETR) exam, that candidate must take an ET exam.
    i.  Reserve accessions in the Machinist Mate (MM) community will require 
MMA (Auxiliary) and MMW (Submarine Weapons) to convert to MM.  The 
appropriate exam for these candidates will be the paygrade specific MM exam.

5.  Exam Administration and Answer Sheet Returns
    a.  For exam administration and answer sheet return instructions, refer 
to the exam verbatim at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
    b.  ESOs must check the exam tote-board on NEAS Web
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/Public/Toteboard.aspx often to ensure answer 
sheets have been received and processed.
    c.  Late administration of NWAEs should be kept to a minimum as these 
exams are for candidates who, through no fault of their own, are unable to 
take the exam at the regularly scheduled time.  Exam Ordering and 
Discrepancies Division (NETPDC (N321)) is the approving authority for all 
late administration of NWAEs.
    d.  The deadline to administer regular exams is 28 February 2018.  
Approved late exams must be administered no later than 31 March 2018.
    e.  A detailed discrepancy list will be maintained on NEAS Web. Refer to 
chapter 7 of reference (a) for guidance on correcting discrepancies.  In 
addition to processing discrepancy corrections via letter or message, NETPDC 
will also accept discrepancy corrections by encrypted e-mail.
    f.  Refer to reference (d) regarding procedures for missed exam cycle for 
E4-E6 IA candidates.  Missed exam cycle considerations are not an automatic 
process.  Commands must submit the command letter of transmittal and 
worksheet or answer sheet.
    g.  Refer to reference (d) regarding examination options for E7 IA 
candidates.  Commands must submit the command letter of transmittal in line 
with reference (a).  The in-theatre selection board eligibility waiver is not 
an automatic process.
    h.  If an exam is administered in error, the command must request to 
invalidate in line with paragraph 610 of reference (a).
    i.  Only those materials specifically identified and listed in chapter 6 
of reference (a), this NAVADMIN and the general examination verbatim 
instructions are authorized for use during examination administration.

6.  Examination Results
    a.  E4-E7 results will be provided via Bureau of Naval Personnel On-Line 
to authorized command representatives prior to release of profile sheets.
    b.  Commands are directed to verify the Examination Status Verification 
Report (ESVR) on NEAS Web for accuracy before frocking and/or advancement of 
E4-E6 candidates.
    c.  Commands are directed to verify the ESVR for accuracy and re-verify 
weekly thereafter until scheduled board convening date for E7 candidates.  
Commands must submit a message to NETPDC (N321), info the Navy Enlisted 
Active and Reserves Advancements (PERS-812)/Eligibility and Promotions Branch 
(PERS-802), requesting invalidation for candidates no longer eligible or no 
longer recommended for advancement.  Withdrawal of advancement must be 
documented as directed in reference (a), paragraph 721b.
    d.  Individual Sailors may view/download their profile sheet via a .mil 
domain computer at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Any additional information regarding this cycle will be posted on NEAS 
Web.

8.  Points of contact:
    a.  Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center at 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-
827-5672 or via e-mail at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  SCI exam questions and orders:  850-473-5867/DSN 753 or via e-mail at 
sfly_cryptologic.products(at)navy.mil.
    c.  Exam orders, records, and discrepancies:  850-473-6148/DSN 753 or via 
e-mail at sfly_N321_exam_order(at)navy.mil, or 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

9.  For further information (reference (a), exam verbatim, and other related 
documents) visit NEAS Web at https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
