UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 222036Z OCT 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 257/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS//

SUBJ/2018 ARMY-NAVY GAME SPIRIT SPOTS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/OCT// POC//LCDR BETH TEACH/CH INFO 01-
2/TEL:  (703) 614-9154/
E-MAIL:  NAVYMEDIA(AT)NAVY.MIL/ BETH.TEACH(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/l. This year the Army-Navy game is scheduled for Saturday,
8 December 2018 at Lincoln Financial Field (Philadelphia).  CBS Sports will 
televise the game and will once again accept "Go Navy, Beat Army" video spots 
from the Navy and Marine Corps team to be considered for broadcast during the 
game.  Please note that CBS generally only airs one spirit spot from each 
service, selected at their discretion.
    a.  Advanced notice of use by CBS is not possible. Videos may be played 
on the stadium's video boards at the game, also at the organizer's 
discretion.
    b.  The Navy Office of Information and Defense Media Activity will market 
selected spots to a variety of media outlets, flagship web and broadcast 
platforms, and social media sites prior to the game to help generate esprit 
de corps and as a way of highlighting our naval forces.

2.  Requirements and best practices:
    a.  All spots must be submitted from a Navy or Marine Corps activity and 
release is embargoed until 3 December 2018.
    b.  Include the submitting command's name and location and include a "Go 
Navy, Beat Army" theme.  Ships, shore commands and Naval Academy brigade 
companies are highly encouraged to submit entries.
    c.  Avoid use of Navy or military jargon or acronyms.
    d.  Do not submit group/command/formation spirit spots in which the group 
is shouting or conducting a shout out message.
    e.  Experience has shown that submissions most likely to be successful in 
broadcast or social media sites are those with clean, clear audio and that 
exhibit enthusiasm, humor, creativity and motivation.
    f.  Inclusion of Naval Academy graduates, unique locations, forward 
deployed locations and underway scenes are highly encouraged.  Focus on new 
platforms and capabilities is also highly encouraged.
    g.  Spots must not include copyrighted or sensitive material or music, 
make any official or implied endorsements, or present commands or the Navy in 
a negative light.
    h.  Spots should be broadcast quality in one of the following file 
formats:
        (1) Files should be at least 8 mb/s but no more than 100 mb/s and in 
mxf, mpeg, wmv, mp4, mov or avi file formats.  M4v, flv and swf files are not 
accepted.
        (2) Include a word document with the submitter's points of contact, a 
suggested title, description and release authority.
        (3) All submissions must be in high definition (1920x1080 or
1280x720) or ultra-high definition (4K).
    i.  If intended for CBS, spots must be exactly 29 seconds or 59 seconds 
in length.  Spots intended for social media or other web-only outlets shall 
not be longer than two minutes.
    j.  Use high quality Navy branding graphics available for use on Navy.mil 
in the graphics gallery.
    k.  Submit only ready-to-air spots.  Neither CBS nor the Navy Office of 
Information will edit submissions.
    l.  Frame shots according to rules of good composition (avoid talking 
heads with no bodies) and avoid distracting backgrounds and inadvertent 
commercial product placement.  Ensure personnel in video adhere to uniform, 
grooming, and safety/PPE standards.
    m.  Good audio quality and sharp focus are paramount.  Poor audio quality 
is a common reason for rejection.  Check for over-modulated audio, weak 
audio, unclear voices or background noise prior to submitting.

3.  Support from Navy Public Affairs Support Elements, Defense Media Activity 
detachments or broadcast detachments is permissible on a not-to interfere 
with operational requirements basis.

4.  Commands should send original, broadcast-quality footage by electronic 
means, express shipment or fastest method available to the Navy Office of 
Information, Media Content Operations (01-2).
Submissions must be received before 3 December 2018.  Late submissions will 
not be accepted.  Please consider shipping times and delay factors such as 
force protection at the Pentagon, overseas and deployed units.
    a.  Send to:  U.S. Navy Office of Information 01-2
                  Attn:  LCDR BETH TEACH
                  1000 Navy Pentagon, RM 48463
                  Washington,  DC 20350-1000 Uploads to 
video(AT)imagery.navy.mil via the AMRDEC Safe Access File Exchange, or shared 
via Google Drive are also accepted.
    b.  Posts to DVIDS become public on upload.  Please be aware that this 
may violate the embargo and reduce the value of your entry.
Email navymedia(AT)navy.mil with subject line "Army-Navy transmission" with 
any questions or concerns regarding file transfer information and assistance.

5.   Request widest possible dissemination of this message as this is
an excellent means of highlighting Navy teamwork and the spirit of our 
Sailors and Marines forward deployed around the world.  Go Navy, beat Army!

6.  Released by Mrs. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

UNCLASSIFIED//
