RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2802028-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 072028Z OCT 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01500//
NAVADMIN 261/13
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR MARCH 2014//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/061710ZAUG07//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the March
2014 distance learning Executive Master of Business Administration
(EMBA) program.  The program will be taught in the Norfolk, Mayport, and San 
Diego fleet concentration areas, as well as Pensacola, Patuxent River, 
Lemoore, Corpus Christi, Jacksonville, Washington Navy Yard, Bangor, Hawaii 
and other satellite sites.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a 24-month, 
Navy-funded, part-time graduate program focused on resource management.  The 
program prepares middle to senior grade active duty officers (O4 (select), 
O4, and O5), whose career paths preclude in-resident NPS graduate programs, 
for positions requiring resource management expertise.

3.  The program begins with a one-week temporary additional duty (TAD) 
resident program at the NPS campus in Monterey, CA.  Official travel orders 
and funding for TAD travel should normally be provided by the student's 
parent command.  If command funding is not available, students may choose to 
fund their own travel and utilize no-cost temporary duty orders from their 
command.  During the resident week, students will take a two-credit hour 
course in managing teams. 
Additionally, students will interact with the faculty who will be teaching 
throughout the program and master the skills required to learn via distance 
learning methods.  The NPS program is scheduled for the week of 3-7 March 
2014.  A block of rooms has been reserved at the Monterey Navy Lodge, for all 
attendees.  Optionally, the NPS BOQ on campus may be utilized on a space 
available basis.  Bus transportation will be provided to and from the Navy 
Lodge for daily classes on the NPS campus to minimize costs.

4.  NPS faculty use video teleconferencing (VTC), internet, and other 
distance learning modes to teach the follow-on courses.  Students meet in 
VTC-capable classrooms once a week during normal duty hours for six to seven 
hours of instruction, taking two classes per quarter for eight quarters.  
Students enter the EMBA program as a cohort and will take all courses 
together as a learning team (min 5 persons).  All students must recognize 
that attending classes with their respective cohort is mandatory to complete 
the degree requirements. VTC instruction will begin during the week of 1 
April 2014.  Class schedules will be posted on the EMBA web site when 
confirmed.

5.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a 
regionally accredited four-year college or university, academic profile code 
of 245 (2.6 GPA or higher on a 4 point scale and 2 or more pre-calculus 
courses with a grade average of B or better; official transcripts must be 
forwarded to director of admissions for evaluation), department head or 
similar mid-level management experience, strong potential for promotion, and 
command endorsement. The Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) is not 
required. Individuals desiring to participate in the program must have 
projected rotation dates that allow them to complete the full 24-month 
program at their selected location (no earlier than March 2016).  Graduates 
will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the Navy subspecialty code 3100P, 
Resource Management - Defense Focus.  Graduates will be expected to serve in 
at least one financial management subspecialty coded billet as a follow-on 
assignment.

6.  Per ref (a), officers participating in this program must agree to remain 
on active duty following completion of graduate studies for a period of three 
years.  This obligation is discharged concurrently with any other service 
obligation already incurred.  This agreement does not obligate the Navy to 
retain the officer on active duty.

7.  The application deadline is 17 January 2014 for the March 2014 cohort.  
Submit applications by following all of the steps (contact detailer, complete 
online application, send official transcripts, prepare documents, and 
transmit) explained in the application process provided on the EMBA web site, 
www.nps.edu/emba/emba805/prospective.html.  Preferably, applications should 
be transmitted via encrypted e-mail to emba(at)nps.edu.  Alternatively, if e-
mail is unavailable, physical packages may be sent via mail/shipping service 
(i.e. USPS, UPS, FedEx, DHL, etc.) to: 

    EMBA Program Manager & Academic Associate
    Naval Postgraduate School
    555 Dyer Rd Code GSBPP/HH Rm 339
    Monterey CA 93943-5103.

8.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office at (831) 656-2562 /DSN 
756 or via e-mail at emba(at)nps.edu.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0000
NNNN

