UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 021855Z SEP 14 PSN 379017H27
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN

NAVADMIN 202/14

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-15 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14NOV13//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1500.22G, GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN represents a significant change in reductions to the 
General Military Training (GMT) program for FY-15, and should be read in its 
entirety.  In response to fleet feedback and recommendations from our command 
triads, we've reduced requirements for FY-15 GMT and placed more flexibility 
in the hands of commanding officers, by providing training options in ways 
they find most relevant.

2.  Informed by this feedback, and led by our Flag/Senior Executive Planning 
Board for Training, with contributions from U.S. Fleet Forces Command and 
many others, we've consolidated separate alcohol, drug, and tobacco topics 
into a single, integrated lesson.  We've also eliminated anger management as 
a stand-alone course.  Finally, we will deliver personal financial management 
GMT using financial topics selected by command leadership vice a *one-size-
fits-all* GMT lesson.  In upcoming years, we'll continue to add flexibility 
and streamline content in order to return training time back to commands and 
devolve more authority to command triads, who best know what training their 
crews need most.  As we strive to improve, fleet feedback is essential - and 
we welcome your suggestions.

3.  For FY-15, commands should use the standardized training materials 
available via the Navy Knowledge Online (NKO) GMT page and Navy eLearning for 
web based lessons.  All training listed on the NKO GMT page is mandatory for 
FY-15.
    a.  *Category One* training must be conducted as face-to-face, 
instructor-led sessions provided at the command level.  Commands shall 
utilize senior leadership, such as chief petty officers and command training 
teams to deliver Category One training.  Commands are encouraged to leverage 
local subject matter experts and collateral duty officers to compliment the 
standardized training content.  FY-15 Category One training will include the 
following lessons: 

        (1) Alcohol, Drugs, and Tobacco Awareness
        (2) Equal Opportunity/Sexual Harassment/Grievance Procedures
        (3) Hazing Policy and Prevention
        (4) Personal Financial Management
        (5) Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Awareness
        (6) Stress Management
        (7) Suicide Awareness and Prevention
    b.  Per reference (a), *Category Two* topics comprise the remaining 
annual GMT requirements where instructor led, face-to-face delivery is not 
mandated.  There were 15 separate Category Two training lessons which, 
through the efforts mentioned in paragraph 2 above, have been reduced to 12 
for FY-15.  For most of this Category Two training, where multiple delivery 
methods are available, unit commanders have flexibility to choose between 
command-delivered face-to-face sessions, individually completed web-based 
training sessions, or a combination of the two methods.

4.  The NKO GMT web page is a living document that is updated regularly and 
remains the primary resource for any changes to related training requirements 
or revised training availability.  To access this web page, go to NKO at 
https://www.nko.navy.mil.  Once logged into NKO, select the *GMT* option 
under the *Personal Development* menu item to access the Navy*s GMT page.  
The GMT planning calendar is prominently displayed and provides recommended 
months for training topic delivery that coincide with national and Navy-wide 
communication themes.  Use of the calendar as a GMT planning tool is highly 
encouraged to reinforce topic visibility and improve overall training 
effectiveness, but delivery schedules are ultimately determined by the 
command.  Specific directions for enrollment in web-based lessons via Navy 
eLearning are also provided on the NKO GMT web page.

5.  Individually-completed web-based training is automatically recorded and 
tracked in the individual*s electronic training jacket.
Command-delivered training completion is recorded in the Fleet Management and 
Planning System (FLTMPS) via the learning event completion form.  Detailed 
instructions are available online at https://ntmpsweb.ncdc.navy.mil/Fltmps, 
by contacting the support office at (866-438-2898), and posted on the NKO GMT 
page.

6.  Our efforts to review and streamline training requirements continue into 
FY-15 where the intent is to potentially combine specific training topics 
into larger themes (destructive behaviors, for example) and reduce reporting 
requirements where possible.  In addition, we are in the process of upgrading 
multiple training lessons to eliminate basic slide presentations and replace 
them with video vignettes and other advanced training techniques.  For 
additional information, contact the Center for Personal and Professional 
Development via e-mail at gmt.distribution(at)navy.mil.

7.  This NAVADMIN is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2015.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#5523
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

