UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 311606Z JAN 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 019/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-18 LEGAL COUNSEL TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT 
CHIEFS OF STAFF SELECTION BOARD//

RMKS/1.  This announces the notice of convening date for subject selection 
board as 21 March 2018.  The following list indicates the name, active-duty 
list number, and date of rank of the senior and junior officers on the 
active-duty list, who are eligible for consideration as of the date of this 
NAVADMIN.

Sr Eligible  Pedrozo, S.       010710-00  1 JUL 06
Jr Eligible  Blum, A.          016073-00  1 FEB 16

2.  The following guidance is provided:  this board will recommend an officer 
for appointment as Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
(CJCS).  The board will consider judge advocates from the Army, Navy, Air 
Force and Marine Corps.  No weight will be given to branch of service or 
source of commission.

3.  Eligible officers not wanting to be considered by this board are strongly 
encouraged to submit a request to the President of the FY-18 Legal Counsel to 
the CJCS selection board as directed below, indicating the desire that their 
record not be considered.  Such request may be submitted via e-mail to (Pers-
4416B) (CDR Todd Kline, JAGC, USN) at the email listed in paragraph 7 below.  
Officers submitting requests not to be considered will not be eligible and 
their records will not be presented to the board for consideration.

4.  The officer selected as Legal Counsel to the CJCS should have significant 
joint experience, defined as:  having completed at least 1 year in the grade 
of O-4 through O-6 on the joint staff, a combatant command, the Office of 
Secretary of Defense, a Joint Task Force (JTF), or a Defense Agency.  Other 
significant joint duty while assigned to a JTF may be calculated 
cumulatively, including assignments to joint individual augmentation 
(IA)/overseas contingency operations (previously referred to as Global War on 
Terrorism support assignment) billets.

5.  A summary of each eligible joint duty experience of the officer will be 
considered by the board.  The joint duty experience summary form will be 
provided to individual eligible officers by separate correspondence.  All 
eligible officers who do not request non-consideration will be required to 
populate the joint duty experience summary document and submit to (Pers-
4416B) (CDR Todd Kline, JAGC, USN) via e-mail no later than 16 February 2018.

6.  Upon approval by the President of the United States, the officer selected 
will be appointed to the permanent grade of brigadier general or rear admiral 
(lower half).

7.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a selection board. All 
correspondence must arrive not later than 16 February 2018 and shall be 
addressed to CDR Todd Kline at the email or address below (e-mail preferred):

    Navy Personnel Command (Pers-4416B)
    Attn:  CDR Robert "Todd" Kline, JAGC, USN
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055-4416
    Fax:  (901) 874-2679
    E-mail:  robert.kline2(at)navy.mil

Written communication may call to the attention of the board any matter 
concerning himself or herself which the officer considers important.  The 
written communication may include, as enclosures, correspondence from any 
individual concerning the eligible officer. Correspondence not originated by 
the eligible officer, including endorsements to the letter of the officer and 
letters written on behalf of that officer, must contain a written 
acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she desires such 
correspondence be presented to the board.  Correspondence without such 
acknowledgement is considered third party correspondence and will be 
returned. Classified correspondence will not be accepted.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
