UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 291251Z OCT 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 254/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/FLEET SCHOLARS EDUCATION PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the FY-16 academic year (AY) 16/17 Fleet 
Scholars Education Program (FSEP).  FSEP is a Navy talent management 
initiative that provides education opportunities to community-selected 
unrestricted line (URL) and Information Dominance Corps (IDC) officers.  FSEP 
selectees will attend an accredited graduate school of their choice in 
residence (CONUS, Alaska and
Hawaii) for up to 24 months.  Distance learning, medical and legal education 
are not authorized under this program.

2.  Community sponsors will develop and implement selection criteria and 
policies to identify their most talented and proven performers for FSEP 
participation.  Community sponsors will make selections no later than 16 
December 2015 and submit to Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Manpower, 
Personnel, Training and Education (N1) in order to meet AY-16/17 fall/winter 
start dates.  FSEP is nominally focused on lieutenant (0-3) URL and IDC 
officers.  Each community sponsor may select up to their annual allocated 
graduate education opportunities shown below:
 Community Designator                       Opportunities
 AIRFOR    1310, 1320                          (7)
 SURFOR    1110                                (7)
 SUBFOR    1120                                (4)
 NSWC      1130                                (3)
 NECC      1140                                (3)
 IDC       1810, 1820, 1830                    (6)

3.  Officers who have already received fully funded graduate education are 
not eligible to participate.  This does not include graduate degrees obtained 
through Post 9-11 G.I. Bill, tuition assistance or Navy College Program for 
Afloat College Education (NCPACE).  Selectees will be assigned a unique 
additional qualification designation for purposes of tracking and career 
management.

4.  Upon notification of selection by the Navy, FSEP selectees should apply 
to at least three graduate education institutions of their choice.  
Participants will be reimbursed for up to three application and transcript 
fees.  Participants shall consult the list of schools that already have 
education service agreements (ESA) on the Naval Postgraduate School Civilian 
Institutions (NPS CIVINS) webpage.  In cases where the school of choice is 
not on the ESA listing, the selectee must notify the NPS CIVINS office as 
soon as possible to allow sufficient time to pursue additional ESAs.
Participants are responsible for researching and completing prerequisites 
including graduate record examinations where applicable.  Starting enrollment 
and permanent change of station orders will be for the fall/winter term start 
of AY-16/17.

5.  Service Obligation:  FSEP selectees shall agree to remain on active-duty 
for three years following graduation or withdrawal from the program.  A 
member who voluntarily or through misconduct fails to complete the active 
duty time agreed upon shall be required to reimburse the cost of the 
education received, prorated for the obligated time served.

6.  Additional information regarding the FSEP program can be found on the 
Navy CIVINS website at http://www.nps.edu/Academics/ CIVINS/index.html.

7.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or
31 January 2016, whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

