UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 291932Z AUG 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 203/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/ 244th U.S. NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON
DC/DNS/JUL//REF/A/MSG NAVADMIN 173-18/-/202116ZJUL18//

REF/B/DOC/SECDEF/11OCT2017// REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/12FEB2019//

REF/D/DOC/DOD/5500.07-R/17NOV2011//

REF/E/DOC/DON/5720.44C/21FEB2012//

REF/F/NAVADMIN/101523ZJAN17//

REF/G/10 U.S.C. 974//

REF/H/PDASD(PA)/05NOV2009//

REF/I/5 C.F.R. PART 2635//

REF/J/DON/4001.2K/12AUG2009//

REF/K/DON/4001.1F/02JUL2010//

REF/L/CNIC/1710.3/14JUN2013//

NARR/REF A IS CNO'S 243RD U.S. NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER.  REF B IS DOD 
PUBLIC AFFAIRS OUTREACH ACTIVITIES GUIDANCE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019.
REF C IS OPNAVINST 5726.8B, OUTREACH: AMERICA'S NAVY.  REF D IS THE DOD JOINT 
ETHICS REGULATION.  REF E IS DON PUBLIC AFFAIRS GUIDANCE.
REF F IS THE FY2017 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN.  REF G IS TITLE 10, U.S. 
CODE, SEC. 974, GOVERNING USE OF MILITARY MUSICAL UNITS.
REF H IS OSD'S INTERIM POLICY GUIDANCE ON SECTION 974 AND USE OF MILITARY 
MUSICAL UNITS.  REF I IS TITLE 5, CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS, PART 2635, 
STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.  REF J IS 
SECNAVINST 4001.2K, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS.
REF K IS OPNAVINST 4001.1F, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS TO THE AGENCY.  REF L IS 
CNICINST 1710.3, OPERATION OF MORALE, WELFARE AND RECREATION PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN is a planning order (PLANORD) for events in support of 
the commemoration of the 244th U.S. Navy Birthday and Heritage Week (244th 
birthday).
Coordination and planning are to support working group planning, operation 
order development, and execution of the 244th birthday commemoration Navy-
wide.

2.  Situation:
    a.  On 13 October 2019, the Navy will celebrate its 244th birthday.  The 
central theme of this year's 244th birthday and heritage week is "No Higher 
Honor," which comes from a quote by LCDR Robert Copeland, Commanding Officer 
of World War II destroyer USS Samuel B. Roberts (DE-413). Japanese forces 
sank USS Samuel B. Roberts during the October 1944 Battle off Samar, the most 
dramatic naval engagement of the Leyte campaign.  The 75th anniversary of the 
Battle of Leyte Gulf is this year. The announcement of this theme allows 
planners at all echelons to focus on talking points, guest speakers, and 
solicitations for this year's commemoration. Naval History and Heritage 
Command (NHHC) will share communication goals, background, and messages in 
its online Navy birthday commemoration toolkit at history.navy.mil/birthday 
and the full CHINFO Navy Birthday communication plan is available from the 
NHHC POC listed in para 7.
    b.  "No Higher Honor" links todays Sailors with those who have gone 
before them, beginning with the establishment of our Navy in 1775. For more 
than two centuries, American Sailors and the U.S. Navy have stood the watch, 
served with honor, courage, and commitment, and have been the shield of the 
Republic. Following in the wake of their shipmates from the past, todays 
Sailors and Navy remain a forward deployed presence 24/7, 365 days a year.
    c.  On 7 October 2019, the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) will mark the 
commencement of a week-long Navy Heritage Celebration in Washington, DC 
culminating with a celebration at the National Capital Region (NCR) Navy 
Birthday Ball on 12 October 2019.
    d.  The Navy will leverage the 244th BDAY as an opportunity for enhanced 
public engagement where our forces are stationed, both at home and abroad. 
Per reference (b), the continued development of an overarching strategic 
approach will ensure alignment throughout the Navy Enterprise and provide 
guidance for planning and execution. The intent is to maximize public 
awareness by conducting local events in areas with a Navy presence. On a 
broader scale, we will use the 244th BDAY to tell our Navy's story, 
strengthen our Navy's connection to the American public, and improve the 
American public's appreciation for our Navy's role in our nation's history 
and culture.
    e.  The 244th birthday commemoration will include a series of events in 
Fleet concentration areas (CONUS and OCONUS) and at local commands throughout 
the Navy concluding by 20 October 2019.  244th birthday planning should 
include a range of events coordinated to promote participation by the local 
populace and civic leadership per references (a) through (e).
    f.  NHHC is the lead for all phases and may provide amplifying guidance, 
to include delegating authority to other echelon II and below commands to 
lead specific phases or provide support with the exception of efforts aligned 
to support NCR events.  To the maximum extent possible, fleet 244th birthday 
events will be synchronized with NCR events.  For optimal sequencing, all 
Navy birthday ceremonies (including those associated with Navy birthday 
balls) should, to the maximum extent possible, be planned to execute prior to 
or the same day as the NCR Navy birthday ball on 12 October 2019.

3.  Mission:  Navy commands will synchronize their efforts in celebrating the 
U.S. Navy's birthday to gain the maximum institutional benefit with internal 
and external audiences. For the purpose of the effort, institutional benefit 
includes:
    a.  Increased awareness and support for the U.S. Navy.
    b.  Enhanced appreciation of Navy missions, history and heritage for 
Sailors, former Sailors, and their families.
        (1) Per reference (c) and to the extent feasible, 244th BDAY events 
should leverage tours of Navy installations, fitness events, U.S. Navy Band 
performances, Navy birthday ceremonies, Navy birthday balls, Navy heritage 
celebrations, and similar events to raise awareness of our Navys birthday, as 
well as our rich history and proud heritage. Paragraph 0507 of reference (e) 
provides guidance concerning public engagement events appropriate for 
commemorating our Navy's birthday.

4.  Execution:
    a.  CNO's intent
        (1) Purpose. Synchronize the Navy's efforts in celebrating its 244th 
Birthday to gain the maximum institutional benefit with internal and external 
audiences.
        (2) Method. OPNAV and NHHC will provide the guidance and oversight 
necessary to align commands on the preparation and execution of 244th 
birthday. As part of this effort, best practices developed for the 243rd BDAY 
celebration will be refined for use in 244th BDAY and future commemorations.
        (3) End state
            (a) Enhanced naval heritage and traditions.
            (b) Maximized opportunities for participation in Navy 
commemoration events.
            (c) Increased awareness of, and support for, the Navy by key 
audiences.
            (d) Improved Navy-wide processes and coordination for Navy 
birthday commemorations.
    b.  Initial planning guidance
        (1) Use the 244th BDAY as an avenue to share naval history and 
heritage.
        (2) Plan and execute 244th BDAY in a manner consistent with above 
references and other applicable laws and policy.
        (3) Identify guest speakers/guests of honor early in the planning 
process, with an eye toward maximum institutional benefit.
    c.  Official and unofficial Navy birthday related events: This PLANORD 
constitutes express authorization for official Navy birthday commemoration 
ceremonies to be held in connection with unofficial Navy birthday balls and 
similar social events (i.e., in a "two-tiered" fashion) where feasible, and 
to the extent consistent with law and regulation. A "two-tiered" approach may 
be employed to better leverage official engagement opportunities associated 
with certain unofficial Navy birthday-related events and allow for more 
flexibility in unit-level planning of official evolutions.
        (1) Official Navy birthday commemoration ceremonies directly support 
the mission of the U.S. Navy. They are authorized on a stand-alone basis 
(e.g., a ceremony onboard a Navy installation) as well as when held in 
conjunction with unofficial Navy birthday balls and similar social events. 
Official Navy birthday ceremonies held in conjunction with unofficial Navy 
birthday balls and similar social events will normally follow a "two-tiered" 
sequence: Tier 1 (official Navy birthday commemoration ceremony) followed by 
Tier 2 (unofficial Navy birthday ball or similar social event). Official Navy 
birthday commemoration ceremonies often include (subject to availability) a 
Navy color guard, a performance by a Navy band (for ceremonial music only), a 
presentation or pageant commemorating the Navy's birthday and mission, and 
appropriate guest of honor remarks. Active unit level planning, management, 
and execution efforts in support of official Navy birthday commemoration 
ceremonies are authorized in a manner consistent with mission, resource, and 
legal constraints. These efforts may include provision of the following in 
support of official ceremony requirements: security, transportation of 
ceremony participants, ceremony photography, informational notifications via 
official military information channels, audio /visual support, and other 
appropriate logistical support required for the official ceremony. Official 
Navy birthday commemoration ceremonies are to be conducted in a manner 
consistent with applicable mission, resource, and legal constraints.
        (2) Unofficial Navy birthday balls and similar social functions.  
Though sometimes held in conjunction with an official Navy birthday 
commemoration ceremony, Navy birthday balls and similar social events are 
traditionally organized by groups of Sailors acting in an unofficial capacity 
or other non-federal entities (NFE) chartered to provide support to the 
military and/or its service members. These events normally involve an invited 
Navy speaker or guest of honor, dinner, musical entertainment, dancing, 
refreshments, and other social activities. Navy birthday balls are normally 
supported through NFE-organized ticket sales to attendees, though they may 
also be supported by appropriate NFE fundraising activities, and non-
appropriated funds (NAF), if available and authorized by law and policy. 
While Navy birthday balls involve celebrations of the Navy's birthday, 
history, and heritage, they are not official Navy events. Given that Navy 
birthday balls and similar social events involve celebrations of the Navy's 
mission and heritage and are normally attended by a broad cross section of 
active duty and civilian Navy personnel and their families as well as members 
of local Navy host communities, they often afford important Navy engagement 
opportunities. Therefore, the Navy may provide limited logistical support to 
unofficial Navy birthday balls (e.g., official speakers and notifications to 
military personnel through military information channels) as consistent with 
reference (d).
        (3) Resource and funding constraints.  It is important that 
participation of Navy personnel and use of Navy resources in support of Navy 
birthday-related events receive appropriate prior review to determine the 
nature of the event (e.g., official or unofficial) and to further ensure that 
any use of official time and appropriated and/or non-appropriated funds 
employed in support are consistent with fiscal and standards of conduct 
requirements. Review by servicing legal counsel of the unit planning and 
executing the event is advised.  Appropriated funds are generally unavailable 
for unofficial events and may not be used for feeding and entertainment of 
Navy and/or other persons absent express statutory authority. Any fundraising 
and other similar activities must comply with references (d) and (i).  Gift 
acceptance by Navy personnel must also comply with references (d) and (i) or 
(j) and (k) as applicable. Reference (l) contains policy on MWR support to 
Navy birthday celebrations, to include authorization of limited MWR NAF via 
Navy region and installation commanders in certain cases.  See paragraph 5 
below for additional funding guidance.
       (4) Lessons learned from previous commemorations are an important tool 
to event planners.  It is essential that all commands planning and executing 
Navy birthday events develop measures of effectiveness and performance for 
activities associated with their events and then report those outcomes to the 
Naval History and Heritage Command, which will compile those lessons and make 
them available when complete.  This PLANORD contains deadlines for lessons 
learned and after-action submissions.
       (5) Further develop measures of effectiveness and performance (MOES 
and MOPS) for activities associated with the 244th birthday, building on 
efforts from the 243rd birthday.
   d.  Tasking
       (1) Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the annual Navy Birthday celebration.
       (2) NHHC will:
           (a) Oversee the execution of Navy Birthday events.
           (b) Assign appropriate representation to support Phases I through 
III.  Provide initial, mid, and final planning reviews as well as a detailed 
after action report to DNS following 244th birthday.
           (c) Provide digital resources for use by Commander, U.S. Fleet 
Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM); Commander, Pacific Fleet (COMPACFLT); 
Commander, Naval Reserve Forces Command (COMRESFOR); Commander, Naval 
Installations Command (CNIC); Chief of Information (CHINFO); Regional 
Commanders; and Commanding Officers (COs) and Officers in Charge (OICs).
           (d) Provide Navy Birthday toolkit at history.navy.mil/birthday
           (e) Collect information from COMUSFLTFORCOM, COMPACFLT, CNIC, 
COMRESFOR, CHINFO, and Navy District Washington (NDW) regarding specific 
celebratory activities.
           (f) Develop and make available on NHHC's website a body of lessons 
learned from previous Navy Birthday celebrations.
           (g) Produce plan of the day historical notes for each warfare 
community for the week leading up to the celebration.
       (3) COMUSFLTFORCOM and COMPACFLT will:
           (a) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and celebrate the 244th Navy 
Birthday. Events shall be coordinated with NHHC, CNIC, and Region or 
Operational Commanders to support the requirement for coordinated ceremonies.
           (b) Execute CHINFO Communication Plan and participate in planned 
community activities as operationally feasible.
           (c) Report planned command-specific, scheduled commemorative 
activities to NHHC weekly starting 6 September 2019.
           (d) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 15 November 2019.
       (4) CNIC will:
           (a) Ensure Regional Commanders host a Navy Birthday ceremony and 
other celebratory activities during Navy Birthday and heritage week.
           (b) Assist and direct Regional Commanders with a bell ringing 
ceremony and assist subordinate commands with other Navy Birthday 
celebrations.
           (c) Execute CHINFO Communication Plan and participate in planned 
community activities as operationally feasible.
           (d) Report planned command-specific, scheduled commemorative 
activities to NHHC weekly starting 6 September 2019.
           (e) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 15 November 2019
       (5) COMRESFOR will:
           (a) Ensure Regional Reserve Component Commanders and Navy 
Operational Support Commands (NOSC) host a Navy Birthday celebration, bell 
ringing, and other celebratory activities during Navy Birthday week; 
including during October 2019 drill weekends, or as close to 13 October 2019 
as feasible.
           (b) Execute CHINFO Communication Plan and participate in planned 
community activities as operationally feasible.
           (c) Report planned command-specific, scheduled commemorative 
activities to NHHC weekly starting 6 September 2019.
           (d) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 15 November 2019.
       (6) CHINFO will develop a Navy Birthday Communication Plan in 
coordination with NHHC and provide to ashore and afloat commands by 6 
September 2019. This plan should include Navys strategic message and talking 
points for this event linked to reference (a) efforts.
       (7) Naval District Washington (NDW) will:
          (a) Execute a bell ringing ceremony in honor of those who stood the 
watch in our Nations Navy. Schedule bell ringing and celebrations with NHHC 
to support the requirement for coordinated ceremonies.
          (b) Provide DNS with POAM for the execution of the National Capital 
Region (NCR) Navy Birthday Celebration NLT 6 September 2019.
          (c) Provide lessons learned from the NCR ceremony to NHHC NLT 15 
November 2019.
    e.  Admin.
        (1) The following are directed to be available at the NHHC website 
(history.navy.mil/birthday) NLT 6 September 2019:
          (a) Navy Birthday communication goals, background, and messages 
(the full CHINFO Navy Birthday communication plan is available from the NHHC 
POC listed in para 7.
          (b) Plan of the day historical notes for the week of Navy Birthday
          (c) Navy ball template
          (d) History stand-down lessons
          (e) A template for a Navy Birthday bell ringing ceremony
      (2) Regional Commanders, Cos, and OICs will use NHHC and CHINFO 
products to inform and motivate their Sailors.
      (3) Discretionary celebratory events. The following is a list 
including, but not limited to, the events that Commanders may schedule:
          (a) Bell ringing ceremony
          (b) Plan of the day notes
          (c) Cake cutting
          (d) History stand-down
          (e) Reading of SECNAV/CNO Navy Birthday messages
          (f) Command picnics/fun day
          (g) Golf tournament
          (h) Awards ceremony
          (i) Chief's mess/wardroom luncheons
          (j) Classic Navy movie presentation
          (k) Birthday run
          (l) Re-enlistments
          (m) Birthday ball/dining out
      (4) Public Affairs Guidance
          (a) This is an active PA posture event.
          (b) Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC) will share 
communication goals, background, and messages in its online Navy birthday 
commemoration toolkit at history.navy.mil/birthday and the full CHINFO Navy 
Birthday communication plan is available from the NHHC POC listed in para 7.

5.  Funding.  Per reference (b), funding of outreach events should come from 
within existing programmed and budgeted resources and must be consistent with 
applicable law and policy. Individual commands are responsible for funding 
all costs and ensuring judiciousness in the use of appropriated funds. 
Reference (f) provides additional community outreach guidance and funding 
limitations for fiscal year 2017.

6.  Command relationships
    a.  NHHC is the supported command.
    b.  CNIC, COMNAVRESFORCOM, CHINFO, and NAVHISTHERITAGECOM are supporting 
commanders.

7.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC is Alura Romero, comm: 202-685-6361, email: 
alura.romero(AT)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Ms. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

