UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 091932Z SEP 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO USCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
COMFLTCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
DIRNSA FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 199/16

SUBJ/CALL FOR APPLICANTS FOR THE COMPUTER NETWORK OPERATIONS DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM (CNODP) CLASS OF 2020//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/SEP//
REF/A/DOC/NSA/AUG/NOTAL//
AMPN/REF A IS NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (NSA) CALL FOR CNODP
APPLICANTS
FOR THE CLASS OF 2020.//
POC/LT NATHANIEL NEWSOM/FCC-C10F/TEL:  (443) 634-4567,
EMAIL:  USFF_FCC_C10F_NSAH_CNODP(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This is an annual call for the Computer Network Operations 
Development Program (CNODP), class of 2020. The CNODP is comprised of the 
System and Network Interdisciplinary Program (SNIP), the Global Network 
Exploitation and Vulnerability Analyst (GNEVA) Development Program (GDP), and 
the Joint Cyber Development Program (JCDP).  This is an opportunity for a 
select group of highly, technically inclined individuals to further develop 
their skills in the areas of secure system design, vulnerability analysis, 
Computer Network Defense (CND), and Computer Network Exploitation (CNE).  The 
goal of the program is to develop a cadre of technical leaders who will 
improve Department of Defense (DoD) and service Computer Network Operations 
(CNO) capabilities.  The program is a technically demanding, three-year 
internship, tailored to each applicant to best capitalize on individual 
expertise.  The SNIP, GDP, and JCDP executives expect the next class to start 
on 10 July 2017, with a report not later than (NLT) date of 24 April 2017 to 
allow sufficient time for in-processing, orientation, and security clearance 
processing.

2.  Ideal CNODP candidates will have many of the following qualifications:
   a.  Bachelor's degree plus advanced courses or equivalent experience in 
the areas of computer engineering, computer science, electronic and 
electrical engineering, or applied mathematics.
   b.  Exceptional academic performance and professional accomplishments, as 
well as a demonstrated interest in and ability to perform technically 
oriented, hands-on oriented work.
   c.  Well-developed oral and written communications skills.
   d.  Working knowledge in one or more telecommunications or computer 
network disciplines (computer hardware, software, or networks).
   e.  Well-qualified officers (O1-O3), enlisted (E4-E6), and Service 
Cryptologic Element (SCE) civilians (GG-7-GG-12). Previous assignments should 
include experience in CNO, SIGINT collection operations, information security 
(INFOSEC)/information assurance (IA), and/or research and development (R&D).
   f.  Demonstrated programming skills in C or C++.
   g.  Selected applicants must possess a TS/SCI security clearance and 
current, counter-intelligence (CI) polygraph before the class start date of 
10 July 2017.

3.  Caveats:
   a.  A three (3) years commitment will be required upon graduation to 
fulfill the CNO follow-on tour requirement.
   b.  All applicants shall interface with their respective detailer, prior 
to applying for this program.  Reservists and civilians must discuss 
feasibility of a six (6) year commitment with their respective commands.
   c.  Civilian applicants must have concurrence from their respective 
command and all PCS and associated costs are the responsibility of each 
command.
   d.  All applicants must have the ability to continue service for six (6) 
years from programs start date (e.g., high year tenure (HYT) or failure of 
selection (FOS) will cause the Sailor to not be considered).

4.  Please ensure widest dissemination to include, cryptologic, intelligence, 
communications and computer science, scientific, engineering, acquisition, 
and operations fields.

5.  Each service is limited to a maximum of 20 applicants to allow for 
participants from other DoD agencies.

6.  Selection will be based on a thorough review of each application package 
and an interview of the top applicants by the NSA selection board.  The 
application package shall include the following:
   a.  Documentation that demonstrates service performance and technical 
competency.
     (1) Officers: Transcripts, ODC, OSR, complete PSR, and an optional 
subset of your fitness reports.
     (2) Enlisted: Transcripts, complete PSR, and evaluations detailing 
technical competency.
     (3) Civilians: Transcripts and any performance assessments detailing 
technical competency.
   b.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's Commanding Officer.
   c.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's supervisor attesting to 
his/her technical skills and abilities.
   d.  An optional letter of recommendation at the applicant's discretion.
   e.  A letter from the applicant (two pages or less) answering the 
following:
     (1) Why do you think that CNODP is the right choice for you? What goals 
do you wish to accomplish in CNODP?
     (2) Detail your experience with programming/software engineering, to 
include programming language(s) (degree of familiarity, breadth of 
knowledge/duration of use, and when last it was used).  Remember to include 
experience with assembly, scripting (as well high-level languages).
      (3) Other than programming language expertise listed above, how does 
your experience and training relate to the core fields (hardware, software, 
and networks)?
     (4) Teaming:  Describe teaming experiences where you were a member and 
another where you were a leader.  Describe your role on the team and how you 
contributed. You may include experiences from work or from school.  In your 
answer, describe what aspects you liked and disliked.  If you have had any 
teaming experiences that did not go perfectly, please describe what problems 
were encountered and what measures were taken (e.g., a team member not 
understanding their part or not pulling their weight, conflict within the 
team, etc.). Describe what role you had in any measures that may have been 
taken.
     (5) Give one example of a project where you worked by yourself; briefly 
describe what you accomplished and how you approached the problem (use an 
example that you feel shows your ability to adapt and problem solve).

7.  Send applications to the U.S. Fleet Cyber Command/U.S. Tenth Fleet, Point 
of Contact (POC):  LT Nathaniel Newsom at 
usff_fcc_c10f_nsah_cnodp(at)navy.mil NLT 30 September 2016 for review
and prioritization.  Nominating organizations are expected to pay travel/per 
diem costs for necessary travel associated with interviews, which will occur 
in the December 2016/January 2017 time frame (video conferencing will be used 
wherever necessary).

8.  Commands are strongly urged to consider nominating their best qualified 
personnel for these worthwhile programs. This is an outstanding opportunity 
to give future technical, Computer Network Operations leaders the skills to 
help lead the Navy in this vital area.

9.  Release authorized by Mr. Brian J. Persons, Vice Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
