UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 111845Z FEB 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 034/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/FEB//

SUBJ/2019-2020 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER SCHOLARSHIP RETENTION PROGRAM 
SOLICITATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1520.23C/07JAN15//

RMKS/1.  This message announces the Department of Defense (DoD) Cyber 
Scholarship Retention Program (CySP) for Academic Year 2019/2020 nomination 
requirements and provides details for the Navy application process.  The DoD 
CySP provides professional development opportunities to current employees who 
support DoDs critical cyber functions in exchange for continued service 
within the Department.

2.  The Navy encourages personnel to take advantage of the graduate degree 
completion opportunities provided through the DoD CySP.  During a time of 
limited training resources, this program provides a viable means to fund 
advanced education for personnel who are either in a Cybersecurity related 
position or are preparing for an assignment requiring advanced knowledge in 
the broad disciplines defined in paragraph four.

3.  Navy Eligibility Requirements.  Permanent DoD civilian employees may 
apply for the master's program, doctoral degree program, or associates degree 
program (nonresident, part-time, or Distance Learning (DL) programs 
available).  Active duty and Full Time Support (FTS) military officers are 
eligible for either the masters or doctoral programs (nonresident, part-time, 
or DL programs only).  Active duty and FTS Enlisted personnel may apply for 
the associates degree program (nonresident, part-time, or DL programs only).  
Nominated personnel should be high performing employees who have demonstrated 
the potential for increased responsibilities.  Nominations should fulfill 
specific personnel development requirements for both the individual nominee 
and the nominating organization.

4.  Academic Disciplines.  For participation in the CySP, qualified employees 
must pursue degrees in academic disciplines that have a concentration in 
Cybersecurity.  Such disciplines include, but are not limited to:  artificial 
intelligence and machine learning, biometrics, computer crime investigations, 
computer engineering, computer programming, computer science, computer 
systems analysis, cyber operations, cybersecurity, cybersecurity policy, 
database administration, data management, data science, digital and 
multimedia forensics, electrical engineering, electronics engineering, 
information security (assurance), information systems, information technology 
(IT) acquisition, IT program/project management, network 
management/operations, software engineering, systems engineering, unmanned 
and autonomous systems engineering and operations, web design and 
engineering, and other similar disciplines as approved by the DoD Chief 
Information Officer (DoD CIO).

5. Participating Institutions.  The below is a brief description of the 
available programs but more information can be accessed via the Navy 
Information Warfare Outreach page on milSuite at 
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-570743 (Common Access Card e-mail 
certificate login required).
   a.  Graduate Program:
       1.  DoD institutions offering full-time academic programs leading to a 
masters or doctoral degree are the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) 
and the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS).  Open to DoD civilians only.
       2.  The National Defense University College of Information and 
Cyberspace (NDU CIC) partner university program offers full- or part -time 
academic programs leading to a graduate degree.  A list of participating 
institutions is provided further in this document.  Open to:  DoD civilians 
(full-time, part-time, and DL options available) and officers (part-time and 
DL only).
   b.  Community College Program:  Community colleges designated as Centers 
of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education have been invited to 
participate in a new associates degree pilot program which offers full or 
part-time attendance options.  The list of participating institutions will 
not be finalized until March 2019.  Individuals wishing to participate in the 
CySP Community College Program should review the potential list of 
institutions, which can be found at the link identified above, and select up 
to 3 institutions to attend.  Should none of an applicant’s choices be on the 
final list of participating institutions, the CySP Program Office will work 
with a scholarship recipient to ensure they can attend an alternate school.  
Open to:  DoD civilians (full-time, part-time, and DL options available) and 
enlisted (part-time and DL only).

6.  Program Costs.  The cost of tuition, required fees, and required books 
will be covered by the program.  Civilian students will continue to receive 
their salaries from their parent commands throughout their course of study.  
Civilian students parent commands are also responsible for all travel costs, 
any Temporary Additional Duty costs, and any necessary position back-fill for 
individuals selected for the program.  Prospective applicants should meet 
with their parent commands to discuss all potential program costs.  This 
meeting should provide a full understanding of what is expected during their 
education experience and upon completion of their academic degree.

7.  Obligations.  Participants must maintain good standing in their degree 
programs and upon completion, continue in service as civilian employees or 
military members, or repay the costs of the program.  Pursuant to reference 
(a), military members shall serve on active duty in accordance with 
fulfilling designated service obligations of the Navy.  DoD civilian 
employees shall sign a continued service agreement with their parent 
organization or Component that complies with 10 U.S.C. 2200, prior to 
commencement of their education, to continue service within the DoD upon 
conclusion of their education, for a period equal to three times the length 
of the education period.  If selected, students must sign a Student Code of 
Conduct Agreement, a Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) waiver 
required for release of transcripts, and other additional agreement forms as 
required.

8.  Nomination Package Requirements.  Applicant nomination checklist and is 
posted at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-570743

9. Points of Contact.  Civilian and military personnel are to submit their 
application packages via their chain of command via encrypted e-mail by 29 
March 2019.  All civilian applications must be sent the civilian point of 
contact listed below and all active duty and FTS military applications must 
be sent to the military point of contact listed below.
   a.  Civilian POC:  Mr. Michael Vieira, michael.vieira@navy.mil.
   b.  Military POC:  Mr. Curtis Bogetto, curtis.bogetto@navy.mil.

10.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

