UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 241703Z MAY 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 125/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM UPDATE:  PHYSICAL TRAINING UNIFORM AND FEMALE OFFICER AND 
CHIEF PETTY OFFICER SERVICE DRESS WHITE UNIFORM//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/261812ZJAN17//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/091445ZOCT15//

REF/C/DOC/NAVPERS/14FEB17//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 015/17 NAVY UNIFORM POLICY UPDATE.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 
236/15 NEW UNIFORM INTRODUCTION/HANDBAG POLICY UPDATE.  REF C IS NAVPERS 
15665I, UNITED STATES NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the introduction, manner and occasion of 
wear, and phased availability of the new Navy Fitness Suit (Fitness Suit) and 
the availability and manner of wear of the female officer and Chief Petty 
Officer (CPO) Service Dress White
(SDW) Coat.

2.  Reference (a) announced the delayed introduction of the Fitness Suit due 
to unforeseen technical difficulties associated with production.  Following 
the correction of these issues, Recruit Training Command, Great Lakes 
commenced issuing the Fitness Suit to recruits in April 2017.

3.  The new Fitness Suit appropriately reflects Navy colors, completes the 
Physical Training Uniform (PTU) ensemble and is tailored for a modern fit and 
appearance.  The Fitness Suit is a sea bag requirement for officers and 
enlisted personnel.  In April 2017, eligible enlisted Sailors began receiving 
an increase in their annual clothing replacement allowance to facilitate 
procurement of the Fitness Suit by the mandatory possession deadline of
30 September 2021.  Availability of the Fitness Suit for purchase will 
commence in July 2017 at select fleet concentration areas.
Fleet-wide availability at all Uniform Centers and the Navy Exchange Uniform 
Call Center is targeted for no later than October 2017.
    a.  Description.  The Fitness Suit consists of a unisex, Navy Blue, water 
repellent, nylon jacket and pants.  The nylon fabric offers moisture 
management and anti-microbial/odor resistant performance features.  The 
jacket and pants each have gold color heat transfer "NAVY" logos and are 
trimmed with silver reflective piping.
        (1) Jacket.  The jacket is fully lined with a mesh fabric and has a 
center-front zipper closure with back and underarm air vents.  The sleeves 
are designed to enhance movement and include partial elastic at the wrist.  
There are two side pockets with zipper and flap closures located on the lower 
front and a hidden pocket with a zipper fastener on the right chest interior.  
An adjustable interior waist draw-cord with barrel locks in the jacket 
pockets provides for waist adjustment.  Non-reflective gold heat transfer 
NAVY logos are placed on the left front chest area and on the back, centered 
above the yoke.
        (2) Pants.  The pants are pull-on design with elastic waist and draw-
cord for adjustment, are fully lined with mesh fabric, have two side pockets, 
and have a straight leg cut and bottom leg side zipper fasteners at the leg 
openings.  The design also includes a vertical gold-color, heat-transfer 
"NAVY" logo on the lower right leg and silver reflective trim on the leg 
opening, slide fasteners and at the side vent openings at the hip.
    b.  Occasion for Wear.  The Fitness Suit is designed primarily for 
group/unit physical training activities and the semi-annual physical 
readiness test to facilitate conducting exercises where standing, running and 
exercise is conducted on non-abrasive surfaces.  The occasion for wear of the 
Fitness Suit is as follows:
        (1) In-Port.  The Fitness Suit may be worn optionally or as 
prescribed by the commanding officer when performing unit/command physical 
training.  The Fitness Suit may also be worn during individual physical 
fitness activities and while on liberty (refer to paragraph (3) below).
        (2) At Sea.  The wearing of the Fitness Suit and PTU components will 
be at the discretion of the commanding officer.
        (3) After Normal Working Hours and During Liberty.  The Fitness Suit 
may be worn both on and off base for individual fitness-related activities 
and liberty unless determined otherwise by the regional commander or 
commanding officer.  When worn during personal fitness activities and while 
on liberty, individual components of the Fitness Suit and PTU may be worn at 
the discretion of the Sailor.
        (4) Wear Restrictions and Allowances.  The Fitness Suit is not 
authorized to be worn while in a duty status or when conducting official 
business on base (e.g. Personnel Support Detachments, medical, dental, legal, 
etc.), in lieu of the uniform of the day, when working, nor while in a 
limited or light duty status requiring the wear of a uniform.  Pregnant 
Sailors may wear the Fitness Suit and PTU components unless they become 
uncomfortable or too tight.
In all cases, the Fitness Suit will be worn in such a manner as to reflect 
credit upon the Navy and the Sailor wearing it.
    c.  Manner of Wear.  When required for wear, the jacket and pants will be 
worn together in the following manner:
        (1) Jacket.  The jacket will be worn over the PTU shirt and zipped at 
least three quarters up.  The sleeve cuffs will extend beyond the wrist but 
not beyond the lower knuckle of the thumb.
        (2) Pants.  The Fitness Suit pants will be worn fully on the waist 
and over the PTU shorts.  The length of the pants shall extend down between 
the top and heel of the athletic shoes worn.  The pants will not be of such 
length as to extend beyond the heel and touch the deck.
        (3) Optional Items.  Authorized optional items that may be worn with 
the Fitness Suit include:  Blue Navy or Command Ball Cap, Navy Watch Cap 
(weather conditions warranting), and thermal undergarments.
        (4) Sizing.  The Fitness Suit utilizes an Alpha sizing system similar 
to that of the Navy Working Uniform (example
medium/long) for both jacket and pants.  Fitness Suit components have been 
generously sized to compensate for expected shrinkage during the first five 
washings.  It is recommended that Sailors review the Fitness Suit sizing 
chart available on the Uniform Matters website or at Navy Exchange Uniform 
Centers and try on components before purchasing to ensure sizing needs are 
adequately met.
    d.  Wear Life and Maintenance.  The wear life of the Fitness Suit is 48 
months, which is based on current physical readiness training and testing 
requirements and proper wear and care according to the maintenance 
instructions printed on each component care label.  To ensure longevity of 
the Fitness Suit, Sailors should always use the low temperature settings on 
self-service home style washing/drying machines.  Laundering in industrial, 
ship-board or bulk laundry facilities is not recommended and could damage the 
Fitness Suit.

4.  In line with reference (b), the new female officer/CPO SDW choker-style 
coat commenced introduction in Navy Exchange Uniform and Call Centers in 
January 2017.  Over the next 3 years, the single-breasted SDW Coat with 
lapels is being phased out of the uniform inventory for the Navy and replaced 
by the SDW Choker Coat with stand-up collar.  The deadline for possession and 
wear is 31 January 2020.
    a.  Description.  The new female SDW Choker Coat is similar in appearance 
to that of the male SDW Choker Coat, but designed specifically for the female 
anatomy.  The female SDW Choker Coat is a single-breasted design with 
princess seams to allow for improved fit as well as alteration.  It is fully 
lined and has a standing collar and 6, sewn-on, 35-line U.S. Navy eagle, gilt 
buttons on the left front.  The fabric is certified Navy twill
(CNT) polyester.  It also features a collar with hook and loop fastener tape 
with a lined tab against the neck, zippered sword slit over the left hip of 
the wearer, two internal lower front welt pockets, a hanger loop in back of 
the neck and loops for officer shoulder boards.  The female choker coat does 
not include front breast pockets, pocket flaps or pocket flap buttons.
    b.  Occasion for Wear.  The occasion for wear of the new SDW choker coat 
will be consistent with the policy wear guidelines of Service, Dinner, and 
Full Dress Uniform requirements prescribed in reference (c).
    c.  Manner of Wear.  Wear squarely on the shoulders, button all buttons 
and fasten the collar.  Officers wear hard shoulder boards.
CPOs wear rank insignia on the standing collar.  Breast insignia and 
accoutrements will be worn in the same manner as prescribed in reference (c).  
Ribbons and medals will be placed and worn in the same relative location and 
manner as when worn on the Service Dress Blue Uniform (medals and ribbons) 
and the khaki overblouse (ribbons and name tag).  The holding bar of the 
lowest row of medals and bottom row of ribbons should align approximately 
with the middle of the second button from the top of the coat.  The SDW 
Choker Coat may be worn with all basic, prescribable and optional components, 
less dress shirt and neck tie currently authorized for wear with the single-
breasted SDW coat with lapels.

5.  Navy uniform policies and update announcements are driven by feedback 
received from the fleet requesting policy change, update or clarification.  
The official method of communicating uniform policies to the fleet is 
promulgated by Navy leadership via a NAVADMIN with follow-on publication in 
the U.S. Navy Uniform Regulations (reference (c)).

6.  Direct questions regarding the contents of this NAVADMIN to the Uniform 
Matters Office via e-mail to Mr. Robert B. Carroll, Head of Navy Uniform 
Matters, at robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil,
LSCM(AW/EXW/SW) Judith P. Nelson-Williams, Deputy Head, at 
judith.nelson(at)navy.mil, or PSC(SW/AW) Manuel A. Guiracocha at 
manuel.guiracocha(at)navy.mil.

7.  Direction questions regarding the Fitness Suit and SDW Choker Coat 
availability and related matters to Mr. Gregory Determan, Navy Exchange 
Uniform Program Management Office, at gregory.determan(at)nexweb.org.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until reference (c) has been updated 
to reflect the new policy changes.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
