UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 132043Z DEC 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 289/17

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-19 OFFICER CONTINUATION SELECTION BOARDS AND 
ANNOUNCEMENT OF CONTINUATION POLICY//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/081617ZDEC17//

AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 284/17, NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-19 OFFICER CONTINUATION SELECTION 
BOARDS AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF CONTINUATION POLICY//

RMKS/1.  Reference (a) is canceled.  This NAVADMIN announces Active Duty Officer Continuation 
Selection Boards and includes new guidance from the National Defense Authorization Act of 2018 
requiring correspondence submitted to selection boards arrival not later than
10 calendar days in advance of the board convening date.

2.  The Active-Duty Officer Continuation Selection Boards will convene, when required, immediately 
following the corresponding FY-
19 promotion selection boards.  Eligible officers on the Active-Duty List who are fully qualified to remain 
on active duty and meet the requirements in paragraphs 3 through 6 will be considered for 
continuation.

3.  Lieutenant commander (LCDR) Unrestricted Line, Restricted Line, and Staff Corps (Limited Duty 
Officers (LDOs) are discussed in paragraph 5):
    a.  Twice failure of selection (2XFOS) LCDRs with 14-18 Years of Active Service (YOAS).  Officers 
selected for continuation will be continued until eligible for retirement at the completion of 20 YOAS.
    b.  2XFOS LCDRs with less than 14 YOAS.  Officers selected for continuation will be continued for a 
period of 3 years.
    c.  2XFOS LCDRs with 18 or more YOAS, as provided by law, will not be considered for continuation, 
but will be retained on active duty until retirement eligible at 20 YOAS.

4.  Lieutenant (LT) Chaplain Corps (CHC) and Medical Service Corps
(MSC):
    a.  2XFOS CHC and MSC LTs with less than 18 YOAS.  Officers selected for continuation will be 
continued for a period of 3 years, but not beyond retirement eligibility at 20 YOAS.
    b.  2XFOS CHC and MSC LTs with 18 or more YOAS, as provided by law, will not be considered for 
continuation, but will be retained on active duty until retirement eligible at 20 YOAS.

5.  Commander, lieutenant commander, and Limited Duty Officers
(LDO):
    a.  All permanent LDOs selected for promotion in FY-19 who are subject to mandatory retirement for 
YOAS prior to their scheduled promotion dates and/or prior to completing the time-in-grade necessary 
to retire in the next higher grade after promotion will be considered for continuation.  If selected, these 
officers will be continued for a period sufficient to allow them to accept promotion and, as required, 
attain sufficient time-in-grade to retire at the higher grade.
    b.  All permanent LDOs who are on active duty at the time when the promotion board meets and are 
considered in zone for promotion and who are subject to mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to the 
end of FY-18 will be considered for continuation.  If selected, these officers will be continued for a 
period sufficient to allow them to accept promotion and, as required, attain sufficient time- in-grade to 
retire at the higher grade or, if not selected for promotion, until 30 September 2018.
    c.  2XFOS LDO LCDRs selected for continuation will be continued to retirement eligibility at the 
completion of 20 YOAS.

6.  Chief Warrant Officers (CWOs):
    a.  All CWOs selected for promotion in FY-19 who are subject to mandatory retirement for YOAS prior 
to their scheduled promotion dates and/or prior to completing the time-in-grade necessary to retire in 
the next higher grade after promotion will be considered for continuation.  If selected, these officers will 
be continued for a period sufficient to allow them to accept promotion and, as required, attain sufficient 
time-in-grade to retire at the higher grade.
    b.  All CWOs who are on active duty at the time the promotion board meets and are considered in 
zone for promotion and who are subject to mandatory retirement for YOAS prior to the end of FY-18 will 
be considered for continuation.  If selected, these officers will be continued for a period sufficient to 
allow them to accept promotion and attain sufficient time-in-grade to retire at the higher grade or, if 
not selected for promotion, until 30 September 2018.

7.  Officers on the Active-Duty List who meet any of the criteria in paragraphs 3 through 6 shall check 
BUPERS Online, https://www.bol.navy.mil/, after release of the respective selection ALNAV message, to 
determine if they were selected for continuation.
Once logged into BUPERS Online, click on Advancements/Selection Boards, and then on the appropriate 
officer (Promotion/Continuation) board to determine the results.

8.  Promotion selection board convening dates are as follows:
    a.  Active O6 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes 17 January 2018.  The Active O5 LDO Line 
Continuation Selection board will follow this board.
    b.  Active O6 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 6 February 2018.  The Active O5 LDO 
Staff Corps Continuation Selection Board will follow this board.
    c.  Active O5 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes 13 February 2018.  The Active O4 Line 
Continuation Selection Board will follow this board.
    d.  Active O5 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 27 March 2018.  The Active O4 Staff 
Corps Continuation Selection Board will follow this board.
    e.  Active O4 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 15 May 2018.  The Active O3 CHC/MSC 
and LDO Staff Continuation Selection boards will follow this board.
    f.  Active O4 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes 21 May 2018.  The Active O3 LDO Line 
continuation selection board will follow this board.
    g.  Active CWO3/4/5 Promotion Selection Boards convene 18 June 2018.  The Active CWO2/3/4 
Continuation Selection Boards will follow these boards.

9.  Correspondence addressed to the promotion selection board will not be forwarded to a subsequent 
continuation selection board for consideration.  Officers must communicate with each board separately.

10.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a continuation selection board.  Correspondence must 
arrive not later than 10 calendar days before the convening date of the board and shall be addressed to:
    Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
    President, Active FY-19 (Grade) (Line or Staff Corps, as
    applicable)
    Continuation Selection Board, Board #XXX,
    5720 Integrity Drive, Millington, TN 38055-6300
Note:  Board number is a required field and may be found on the FY-
19 selection board schedule located at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/selectionboardsupport/Pages/FY19-Board-Schedule.aspx.  To check on receipt of your 
package, go to
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyofficer/pages/default.aspx and enter the customer service center link (check on 
your letter to the board) or contact the customer service center at (866) 827-5672.  The written 
communication may call attention to the board, any matter concerning the officers record that the 
officer considers important.  Written communication may include, as enclosures, correspondence from 
any individual concerning the eligible officer.  Correspondence not originated by the eligible officer, 
including endorsement to the eligible officers letter and letters written on behalf of that officer, must 
contain a written acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she desires such correspondence 
be presented to the board.  Correspondence without such an acknowledgement is considered third 
party correspondence and will be returned without being presented to the board.  Classified 
correspondence will not be accepted.

11.  Questions regarding continuation should be directed to Navy Personnel Command (PERS-801) at 
(901) 874-4533/DSN 882.  Additional information is also available at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/officercontinuation/Pages/default.aspx.

12.  The CSCSELBOARD(at)NAVY.MIL mailbox account is capable of receiving encrypted correspondence 
IAW DoD policy.  If you are sending your board package from a non-NMCI network (BUMED.mil, 
USMC.mil, etc), please visit https://dod411.gds.disa.mil to download the required mailbox certificate.  
To download the "Cert" (Please note, you MUST be using MS Outlook with a CAC reader, including 
"ActivClient" software and have Internet Explorer or Netscape 7), go to https://dod411.gds.disa.mil, 
type CSCSELBOARD(at)NAVY.MIL in the "E-Mail address field, then click "Search."  Click the "CSC" link 
under "Last Name."  Click on the link "Download Certificate(s) as vCard.  Click "Software Certificate for 
CSCSELBOARD(at)NAVY.MIL."
Click the "Open" button for the File Download popup.  The certificate will then open.  Click "Save and 
Close".  The certificate is then saved to the profile and can be used to send your encrypted e-mail.

13.  This NAVADMIN will be canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2018.

14.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
