UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 121450Z JUN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 135/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/FY-18-2 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/5OCT10//

AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62B, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot 
School (USNTPS) selection board on 16 August 2017.  This board will select 
highly qualified Naval Aviators and Naval Flight Officers (NFO) for USNTPS.  
USNTPS graduates have significant and long-lasting influence on platforms and 
systems, and thus directly impact the future warfighting capability of their 
fleet community. Request command and fleet community assistance to identify 
candidates with strong operational performance and, ideally, strong academic 
backgrounds in science, technology, engineering, and math fields of study.  
Capabilities being developed for the F/A-18E/F and EA-18G platforms in 
support of advancements in Cooperative Engagement Capability and Electronic 
Warfare have resulted in a high demand for Tactical Air NFOs (Strike Fighter 
Squadron (VFA) and Electronic Attack Squadron (VAQ)) with relevant fleet 
experience. Specifically, developmental flight test of Naval Integrated Fire
Control-Counter Air, Net Enabled Weapons, multi-ship threat geolocation, Next 
Generation Jammer and all associated mission planning systems will demand 
technical experts with tactical qualifications to ensure capable and lethal 
systems are delivered to the warfighter.  Expertise in these critical VFA and 
VAQ mission areas is very much in demand.  This will also be the first board 
where C-2 pilots are considered for the Rotary Wing syllabus at USNTPS with 
follow-on orders as a CMV-22 test pilot at HX-21. Candidates selected for the 
CMV-22 syllabus will complete approximately 8 to 10 months of training prior 
to starting USNTPS with a follow-on class.  The Naval Postgraduate 
School/USNTPS Cooperative program will not be offered during this board or in 
the near future.

2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a command endorsed application in 
line with reference (a), must be received by Navy Personnel Command (NPC) 
Customer Service Center (CSC) no later than 17 July 2017.  Additional 
documentation (including Wing/Carrier Air Wing endorsements, letters of 
recommendation, fitness report, etc.) will be accepted until 14 August 2017 
but must be submitted by the applicant, as a letter to the board, in line 
with subparagraph 3a below.  The command endorsement shall address whether 
the applicant, if selected, will be allowed and available to report for 
initial training as early as October 2017.  The Service Members e-mail
address(es), phone number(s), college transcripts, and post-Test Pilot 
School(TPS) test squadron assignment preferences must be included with the 
application.  Commanding officers contact information should be included to 
expedite notification if selected.

3.  Application packages shall be submitted as follows:
    a.  The preferred method of application submission is electronic.  E-mail 
encrypted portable document format submissions to cscselboard(at)navy.mil, CC 
filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil and michael.p.kline(at)navy.mil.  If unable to send 
encrypted, please contact filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil for assistance.
    b.  If unable to send electronically, applications may be sent via U.S. 
Postal Service to the following address: 

    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-18-2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055 

    c.  Applications sent via Federal Express, United Parcel Service, or DHL 
Express should use the following address: 

    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-18-2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, Bldg 768, RM E302
    Millington, TN 38055

4.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by selecting the customer service link at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/organization/npc/csc/Pages/Default.aspx 
or by calling the NPC CSC at 866-U-ASK-NPC (DSN 882-5672).

5.  Eligibility requirements are as follows:
    a.  Designated Naval Aviators and NFOs through the grade of lieutenant 
commander (LCDR) who are qualified for flight duties and have not been 
terminated from flying status are eligible for selection.
    b.  The preferred unrestricted line (URL, 13x0) aviators are junior 
officers (O-2 or O-3) with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the 
selected TPS program and a 36 month follow-on test tour prior to their 
expected department head tour.  If there are not enough qualified junior 
officers to meet requirements, LCDRs with exceptional records may be 
selected, provided they can meet applicable career milestones.
    c.  Aerospace engineering duty officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of LCDR may be selected if they are able to serve a 36 month follow-on test 
tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing to meet a 
minimum test tour of 24 months may have their application removed from 
consideration.
    e.  Applicants may only apply for the fixed wing, rotary wing, or 
airborne systems curriculums as test pilots and test NFOs.  The flight test 
engineer syllabus is for AIR 5.1 Civilian Personnel and is not available for 
naval officers.

6.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information at the TPS Board website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/testpilot/Pages/default.aspx

7.  Points of contact are CDR Michael Kline, PERS-434B, via e-mail at 
michael.p.kline(at)navy.mil or Mrs. Shirley Murphy, PERS-434B1, via e-mail at 
filisa.murphy(at)navy.mil.

8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
