UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 311732Z MAR 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
NAVADMIN 082/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/NAVY TATTOO AND NWU TYPE II AND III BALL CAP POLICY CHANGE//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/JAN11//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/211737ZAPR06//

NARR/REF A IS NAVPERS 15665I, UNITED STATES NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.  REF B 
IS NAVADMIN 110/06, NAVY UNIFORMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the revision to the Navys personal 
appearance policy as it pertains to tattoos and expands the manner of wear of 
the Navy Working Uniform Type II and III (NWU Type II/III).  References (a) 
and (b) are revised.

2.  Effective 30 days after the release of this NAVADMIN, a modification of 
the Navys tattoo policy regarding acceptable criteria while in uniform will 
be in effect.  This policy change is meant to ensure we dont miss 
opportunities to bring in talented young men and women willing to serve.
    a.  Location.  One tattoo is authorized on the neck and shall not exceed 
one inch in measurement in any dimension (height/width).  Tattoos meeting 
these requirements are acceptable behind the ear.  Permissible tattoos on the 
torso area of the body shall not be visible through white uniform clothing.
No tattoos are permitted on the head, face (to include ear) and scalp.
    b.  Size.  The size restriction for visible tattoos is limited to the 
area of the neck and behind the ear only.  As a result of this change, leg 
and arm tattoos can be of any size.  Tattoo on the neck or behind the ear 
will not exceed one inch in measurement in any dimension (height/width).
    c.  Content.  Tattoos located anywhere on the body that are prejudicial 
to good order, discipline, and morale or are of a nature to bring discredit 
upon the naval service are prohibited.  For example, tattoos that are 
obscene, sexually explicit, and or advocate discrimination based on sex, 
race, religion, ethnicity, or national origin are prohibited.  In addition, 
tattoos that symbolize affiliation with gangs, supremacist or extremist 
groups, or advocate illegal drug use are prohibited.  Waivers will not be 
given for tattoos with prohibited content.
    d.  Cosmetic Tattoos.  Cosmetic tattoos are authorized to correct medical 
conditions requiring such treatment.  For the purpose of this regulation, 
cosmetic tattooing refers to medical or surgical procedures conducted by 
licensed, qualified medical personnel.

3.  Documentation of waiverable and non-waiverable tattoos will be 
accomplished via Administrative Remarks (NAVPERS 1070/613).  NAVPERS 1070/613 
will be submitted for inclusion in the electronic service record via the 
local personnel support detachment for enlisted personnel and mailed to 
Records Analysis Branch (PERS-312) for officer personnel.  Sailors not 
complying with the established criteria are in violation of uniform policy 
and are subject to disciplinary action to include involuntary separation.

4.  Enlisted Accession Policy.  This section refers to individuals newly 
accessed and gained in the active or reserve component.
    a.  Commander, Navy Recruiting Command (CNRC) shall screen all Navy 
enlisted accessions and prior service veterans processing for enlistment, 
reenlistment, or affiliation in to the active or reserve enlisted components 
for tattoos and compliance with this policy.
    b.  Waivers received during previous service periods shall be honored.
However, tattoos found to be contrary to good order, discipline, and morale 
shall be disapproved and the member rejected for affiliation.
    c.  Individuals unable to provide a documented waiver for a previously 
existing tattoo since termination of their last enlistment may be granted a 
waiver by CNRC in accordance with this policy.

5.  Commissioning Program Accessions.  For purposes of this modification of 
the Navys tattoo policy, DCNO(N1) is the authority to ensure compliance with 
the acceptable criteria for all officer commissioning programs.  This 
authority may be delegated.

6.  Sailors are advised to review eligibility criteria for desired special 
duty assignments and commissioning programs before obtaining tattoos.

7.  Effective immediately, commands authorized to wear the NWU Type II and 
III uniform may optionally issue and wear a coyote brown command ball cap.
The manner of wear and authorized lettering, names, acronyms, logos and 
embroidery worn on the coyote brown command ball cap will be in accordance 
with reference (a), chapter 3, article 3501.8.  The eight-point cover will 
remain the standard head gear worn with the NWU Type II and III uniform 
during uniform inspections, special events and as determined by the 
commanding officer.

8.  Command ball caps are organizational clothing that may be purchased with 
appropriated funds and are issued in accordance with reference (a), chapter 
6, article 6801.  Sailors may purchase additional command ball caps with 
their personal funds if desired, just as they purchase other optional 
permissible wear uniform items.  Additionally, wardrooms, chief petty officer 
messes, first class petty officer associations, junior enlisted associations, 
and other similar organizations may purchase command ball caps with their 
funds.  The use of Morale, Welfare and Recreation non-appropriated funds to 
purchase command ball caps is prohibited per DoD Instruction 1015.15 and CNIC 
Instruction 1710.3.

9.  Direct questions regarding grooming and uniform policy changes reflected 
in this NAVADMIN to the Navy Uniform Matters Office (OPNAV N131U) via e-mail 
to Mr. Robert B. Carroll, Head of Navy Uniform Matters at 
robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil; LSCS(AW/EXW/SW) Judith P. Nelson-Williams, 
Deputy Head, at judith.nelson(at)navy.mil; or PS1(SW/AW) Manuel A.
Guiracocha, N131U, at manuel.guiracocha(at)navy.mil.

10.  Direct questions regarding the coyote brown ball cap specifications and 
authorized procurement sources to the NWU Type II/III Program Office, Navy 
Exchange Service Command, Mr. Mark Stephens, Director at 
mark.stephens(at)nexweb.org.

11.  File this NAVADMIN until superseded or canceled, whichever occurs first.
Reference (a) will be updated to reflect the new policy changes in the next 
CD-ROM update.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

