UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 151424Z JUN 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 146/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/FY-19-2 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/24APR18//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62C, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the U. S. Naval Test Pilot 
School (TPS) selection board on 25 July 2018.  This board will select highly 
qualified Naval Aviators and Naval Flight Officers (NFO) for TPS, U.S. Air 
Force Test Pilot School, and Empire Test Pilots School.  TPS graduates have 
significant and long-lasting influence on platforms and systems, and thus 
directly impact the future warfighting capability of their fleet community.  
Request command and fleet community assistance to identify candidates with 
strong operational performance and, ideally, strong academic backgrounds in 
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics fields of study.  
Capabilities being developed for the F/A-18E/F and EA-18G platforms in 
support of advancements in cooperative engagement capability and electronic 
warfare have resulted in a high demand for tactical air NFOs (VFA and VAQ) 
with relevant fleet experience.  Specifically, developmental flight test of 
Naval Integrated Fire Control-Counter Air (NIFC-CA) Net Enabled Weapons, 
multi-ship threat geolocation, next generation jammer, and all associated 
mission planning systems will demand technical experts with tactical 
qualifications to ensure capable and lethal systems are delivered to the 
warfighter.  Expertise in these critical VFA and VAQ mission areas is in 
extremely high demand.

2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a command endorsed application in 
line with reference (a), must be received by Navy Personnel Command (NPC) 
Customer Service Center (CSC) no later than 29 June 2018.  Additional 
documentation (including Wing/CAG endorsements, letters of recommendation, 
FITREPs, etc.) will be accepted until 23 July 2018, but must be submitted by 
the applicant, as a letter to the board, in line with subparagraph 3a below.  
The command endorsement shall address whether the applicant, if selected, 
will be allowed and available to report for initial training as early as the 
following dates:  17 September 2018 for Fixed Wing pilots, 12 November 2018 
for Rotary Wing pilots, and 2 January 2019 for NFOs.  Endorsements with 
availability dates after these respective dates will be removed from 
consideration and not reviewed by the board.  Constrained availability may be 
mitigated by conducting initial training in a temporary additional duty (TAD) 
status at the expense of the endorsing command.  If this is required, it must 
be explicitly stated in the command endorsement that the endorsing command 
will provide TAD funds until the applicant can officially detach.  The e-mail 
address(es), phone number(s), college transcripts, and post-TPS test squadron 
assignment preferences of the applicant must be included with the 
application.  Contact information of commanding officer should be included to 
expedite notification if selected.

3.  Application package submissions:
    a.  The preferred method of application submission is electronic.  E-mail 
encrypted PDF submissions to cscselboard(at)navy.mil and carbon copy 
brandy.theisen.ctr(at)navy.mil and jared.goul(at)navy.mil.  If unable to send 
encrypted, please contact brandy.theisen.ctr(at)navy.mil for assistance.
    b.  If unable to send electronically, applications may be sent via U.S. 
Postal Service to the following address:

    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-19-2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055

    c.  Applications sent via FEDEX/UPS/DHL should use the following address:

    Navy Personnel Command
    FY-19-2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, BLDG 768, RM E302
    Millington, TN 38055

4.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by selecting the customer service link at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/organization/npc/csc/Pages/SelectionBoardPackages.aspx or by calling the 
NPC CSC at 866-U-ASK-NPC (DSN 882-5672).

5.  Eligibility:
    a.  Designated Naval Aviators and NFOs through the grade of lieutenant 
commander who are qualified for flight duties and have not been terminated 
from flying status are eligible for selection.
    b.  The preferred Unrestricted Line (URL, 13x0) aviators are junior 
officers (O-2 or O-3) with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the 
selected TPS program and a 36-month follow-on test tour prior to their 
expected Department Head tour.  If there are not enough qualified junior 
officers to meet requirements, lieutenant commanders with exceptional records 
may be selected, provided they can meet applicable career milestones.
    c.  Aerospace Engineering Duty Officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of lieutenant commander may be selected if they are able to serve a 36-month 
follow-on test tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing to meet a 
minimum test tour of 24 months may have their application removed from 
consideration.
    e.  Applicants may only apply for the fixed wing, rotary wing, or 
airborne systems curriculums as test pilots and test NFOs.  The flight test 
engineer syllabus is for AIR 5.1 civilian personnel and not available for 
naval officers.

6.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information at the TPS Board website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/testpilot/Pages/default.aspx

7.  Points of contact are CDR Jared Goul, PERS-434B, via e-mail at 
jared.goul(at)navy.mil or Ms. Brandy Theisen, PERS-434B1, via e-mail at 
brandy.theisen.ctr(at)navy.mil//

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
