UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 211303Z MAY 19

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 113/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2020 MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

REF/B/DOC/BUMED/3FEB17//

REF/C/DOC/USC/13AUG18//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS BUMED P-117, MANUAL OF THE 
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.  REF C IS TITLE 10 U.S. CODE SECTION 8323.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the Academic Year
(AY) 2020 Medical Service Corps (MSC) In-Service Procurement Program
(IPP) Selection Board.  The MSC IPP will convene in the fall of 2019.  MSC 
IPP provides a path for qualified, career-motivated enlisted personnel to 
obtain a commission as an MSC officer.
Applications will be accepted for the following specialties:  Health Care 
Administration (HCA), Physician Assistant (PA), Social Work and Medical 
Technology/Medical Laboratory Scientist.

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors, Marines and Navy 
Full-Time Support (FTS) personnel of any rating in the pay grades of E-5 
through E-9 at the time of application.  Reservists in an FTS status are 
eligible.  Reservists in any status other than FTS are not eligible.

3.  Application procedures and education requirements are outlined in this 
NAVADMIN and chapters 1, 2 and 6 of reference (a).

4.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment and commissioning.  Age waivers will not be granted.

5.  Amplifying information for the AY-20 MSC IPP Selection Board.
    a.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a 
nuclear Navy enlisted classification (335x, 336x, 338x, 339x) must obtain 
conditional release from nuclear field duty prior to submitting their 
application.  To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must submit an 
Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS
1306/7) to the Chief of Naval Operations, Nuclear Program Manager (OPNAV 
N133) via their detailer.  The AY-20 MSC IPP Selection Board will only 
consider nuclear-enlisted candidates who have a conditional release included 
in their application.
    b.  Applicants not assigned to nuclear programs, listed in subparagraph 
5a, must obtain a conditional release prior to submitting their application.  
To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7 to 
their enlisted community manager.  The AY-20 MSC IPP Selection Board will 
only consider enlisted candidates who have a conditional release included in 
their application.
    c.  Applicants must be worldwide assignable.  In line with chapter 6 
subparagraph 3e of reference (a), applicants must meet pre-
commissioning/accession physical standards for appointment as an MSC officer 
prescribed in chapter 15 of reference (b).

6.  For HCA applicants, the board will select candidates for two separate 
categories:  Direct commission and training.
    a.  Direct Commission.  Applicants for direct commission must possess a 
qualifying masters degree for entry grade credit prior to the board.  
Qualifying masters degrees must have an emphasis in HCA and must be 
accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies:
        (1) Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Management Education, 
more information is available at https://www.cahme.org.
        (2) The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, more 
information is available at https://www.aacsb.edu.
        (3) The Council on Education for Public Health, more information is 
available at https://ceph.org.
        (4) National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and 
Administration, more information is available at http://www.naspaa.org.
    b.  Training.  HCA applicants for training must possess a qualifying 
bachelors degree prior to the board convening.
        (1) Qualifying bachelors degrees include HCA, health services 
administration or management, or in an applicable business or management 
discipline.  Acceptable disciplines include accounting, business economics 
and policy, finance, information systems management, logistics, manpower, 
human resources, materials management and public administration.  Applicants 
must have at least a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 
scale.
        (2) Applicants requesting training will be screened for selection to 
attend full-time in-service training in either the Army-Baylor University 
graduate program in HCA (more information is available at 
https://www.baylor.edu/business/mba/index.php?id=82134)
or the masters in HCA and policy degree at the Uniformed Services University 
of the Health Sciences (more information is available at 
https://www.usuhs.edu/mhap).  Applicants must include conditional letters of 
acceptance from one or both schools in their package.
        (3) Applicants who currently possess a qualifying masters degree for 
entry grade credit will not be considered for training.

7.  For applicants to the PA program:
    a.  Applicants must have a minimum of 60 semester hours of fully 
transferable college credit and all pre-requisite courses must be completed 
before 26 July 2019.  The minimum required overall GPA is

3.0 on a 4.0 scale and a 3.0 for all science and biology courses.
    b.  College level medical terminology is now mandatory pre- requisite 
coursework.  Medical terminology completed as a requirement of A or C school 
will not be accepted.  All pre- requisite coursework must have been completed 
within the past 10 years.
    c.  Applicants must include a current Scholastic Aptitude Test
(SAT) in their package.  The minimum acceptable SAT score is 1,000 (minimum 
math 460).  Applications with an SAT math score below 460 will not be 
considered by the board.
    d.  Official transcripts from all attended academic institutions must be 
requested and sent by the institution directly to the University of Nebraska 
Medical Center (UNMC) no later than
26 July 2019.  The UNMC online application provides the appropriate mailing 
address.
    e.  Application to UNMC PA program must be initiated online via the 
WebAdmit/UNICAS system at https://ipap.liaisoncas.com also no later than 26 
July 2019.  No documents need to be uploaded into the WebAdmit/UNICAS system.  
Note:  Completion of the online application does not qualify as submission of 
the application as it is required for administrative purposes only.
    f.  Hard-copy applications must be shipped to Navy Medicine Professional 
Development Command (NMPDC) by 2 September 2019 in order to be considered 
(see paragraph 11).  Applicants will be notified of their academic 
eligibility well before the official MSC IPP application deadline.

8.  Applicants for the 24 month Master of Social Work (MSW) internship must 
have a masters degree in social work from a graduate school of social work 
accredited by the Council of Social Work Education at https://www.cswe.org 
before the board meets.
Candidates with a strong clinical background and educational focus in 
Military Trauma, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, Traumatic Brain Injury, 
Acute Suicide, Homicidal Risk And Resiliency are preferred.
Preference is given to those who are able to demonstrate experience and 
proficiency in assessment, diagnosis and dispositional planning of conditions 
as indicated in the most current Diagnostic Statistical Manual using current 
evidence-based treatments.  A graduate social worker license or equivalent is 
required for internship in states that license post-MSW social workers.

9.  Applicants for Medical Technology/Medical Laboratory Scientist must have:
    a.  A qualifying bachelors or masters degree from an accredited 
university with a 3.0 or better GPA on a 4.0 scale and a cumulative GPA of 
3.0 for all core science courses.  Preferred candidates will have a science-
based degree.
    b.  Four college-level courses in biological, chemical or natural 
sciences.  Courses completed as a requirement of A or C school do not fulfill 
this requirement.
    c.  4 years of laboratory experience as a trained technician in a medical 
treatment facility under the supervision of a lab officer.
Preferred candidates will have 3 years of supervised laboratory experience 
within the last 6 consecutive years.
    d.  Applicants must possess a Medical Laboratory Scientist certification 
from the American Society for Clinical Pathology.  No other certification 
will be accepted.

10.  In line with references (a) and (c), applicants are reminded that to be 
eligible for voluntary retirement, an applicant appointed as an officer is 
required to complete 20 years of active-duty service, with at least 10 years 
of service as an active commissioned officer.

11.  Applications must be postmarked by 2 September 2019 and mailed
to:
     Commanding Officer
     Navy Medicine Professional Development Center
     8955 Wood Road
     Bldg 1 16th Floor Rms 16141 16148
     Bethesda MD 20889-5628
All required documentation must be received by 20 September 2019.
Incomplete applications received after this date will not be reviewed by the 
board.  Detailed application information can be found at 
https://www.med.navy.mil/sites/nmpdc/professional-
Development/sitepages/.

12.  Board results will be released at the aforementioned NMPDC website once 
approved.

13.  Point of contact is Ms. Beverly D. Kemp, NMPDC (Code O3C HMDT), who can 
be reached at (301) 319-4520/DSN 285 or via e-mail at 
beverly.d.kemp.civ(at)mail.mil.

14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 30 September 2020 or 
superseded, whichever occurs first.

15.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

