UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 091156Z MAY 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 113/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FY-19 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/14DEC09//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED 
SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
FY-19 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) Commissioning Program.

2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all paygrades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).

3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-19 STA-21 Program is 1 
July 2018.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the deadline 
date.  It is recommended that applications be mailed prior to the deadline as 
early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for submission of 
missing or illegible documents.  Deadline for submission of additional 
documentation to a package of the applicant is 1 August 2018.  No additional 
documents can be added after this date.  The selection board is scheduled to 
convene in September 2018, and the selectees will be announced via NAVADMIN.

4.  The following target options and core are open for application for the 
FY-19 Selection Board:  Surface Warfare (SWO), Nuclear (Surface/Sub), Special 
Warfare, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval Flight Officer (NFO), Pilot, 
Civil Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps, and Information Professional.  
Applicants for Aviation options must meet the new minimum Aviation Selection 
Test Battery scores of AQR 5/PFAR 6 for Pilot (1390) and AQR 5/FOFAR 6 for 
NFO (1370) in line with Program Authorization (PA) 150D dated April 2018.

5.  The following target options have zero select opportunity for
FY-19:  Human Resources, Intelligence, Cryptologic Warfare (previously 
Information Warfare), SWO Engineering Duty Option, SWO Information 
Professional Option, SWO Oceanography Option, Medical Corps, and Supply 
Corps.

6.  The Nuclear (Surface/Sub) target option is open to Sailors who are 
serving in the fleet and hold an active nuclear Navy enlisted classification 
(335X, 336X, 338X, or 339X).  Sailors who are serving as a staff member or 
student in the Navy Nuclear Power Training pipeline are also eligible.  All 
applicants must be able to begin their first day of class in the first 
semester of their course work prior to commencing their eighth year of 
service.  See the Nuclear Program Authorization (PA150A) dated December 2015 
for more specific information and all other requirements to apply for the 
program.
Additionally, applicants holding a nuclear Navy enlisted classification must 
receive conditional release, in line with reference (b), if applying for 
option outside the Nuclear Community, from the Nuclear Enlisted Community 
Manager (OPNAV N133D).

7.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the
FY-18 STA-21 selection process and board.  This information is provided to 
preclude common errors:
    a.  Of the 342 applications received for FY-18, only 302 were board 
eligible.  A total of 50 were selected to participate in the
FY-18 STA-21 Program.
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying 
Scholastic Aptitude Test/American College Test (SAT/ACT) test scores, missing 
commanding officer (CO) endorsement/recommendation, recent non-judicial 
punishment, missing physical fitness assessment
(PFA) cycles, missing or illegible submission of documents, and not meeting 
program age or PFA requirements.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.  
Officer interview boards shall consist of three officers.  The applicants CO 
may not be a board member and should not submit an interview appraisal sheet.  
The COs personal interview should be conducted only after the application is 
complete and the officer interview board has submitted their appraisals.  The 
full picture of an academic and officer potential applicant can only be 
determined by reviewing the SAT/ACT scores, high school/college transcripts, 
and a completed application package.
    d.  The COs endorsement is extremely important, especially the ranking of 
the individual among his/her peers.  The endorsement should contain specifics 
about the individuals academic potential, commitment, leadership, service 
above self, and potential as a naval officer.  CO comments should specify the 
primary option to which the individual is applying and address how the 
individual meets qualifications for that option.  For junior Sailors with 
only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in his or her 
endorsement.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board shall be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  It is recommended that officers of the applicants 
designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in the 
interview/nomination review board to assess the applicant for their 
community.  Officer appraisals provide important insight on the applicant.  
The appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
applicants leadership and academic potential.  Appraisal forms should be 
typed in 10 or 12 point font.
    f.  The applicants personal statement should address why the Sailor wants 
to become an officer, how the Sailors selection would improve the Navy, and 
why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must also address 
any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  Junior 
Sailors should provide information on high school experiences as high school 
transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in sports, 
clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should address 
any anomalies in the package (e.g., poor high school grades, college grades, 
or service school grades, poor evaluation performance).  The explanation 
should include details of the situation, how the applicant has overcome these 
issues, and why the applicant will be successful in the future.
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant.
Applicants must review their packages in their entirety before submitting.  
Check for misspelled words and improper grammar.
Ensure all transcripts (high school and all colleges) are enclosed.
Within the last year, applicants must have passed the PFA, to include body 
composition assessment and the physical readiness test with performance in 
the good category.  For applicants who received a waiver on the most recent 
PRT, points will be awarded from the most recent observed score from the 
latest full test taken within a year of application (i.e., Fall 2017 and 
Spring 2018).  A grade of satisfactory or failure of the above two required 
PRTs will make the applicant ineligible.
    h.  Qualifying SAT/ACT scores are required.  Include any additional 
recommendations, qualifications, or other accomplishments as a part of the 
package.
    i.  It is recommended that the command retain a copy of the entire 
application package.  The command copy should not be given to the applicant.

8.  Mail completed applications to:
    Commander
    Naval Service Training Command (OD2/STA 21)
    250 Dallas Street, Ste A
    Pensacola, FL 32508-5268

9.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements, and selection procedures, refer to reference (a), contact your 
command career counselor, or visit the
STA-21 website at www.sta-21.navy.mil for the most up-to-date information.

10.  Points of contact.  Naval Service Training Command, STA-21 Program 
Officer at (850) 452-9433/9563 DSN 459, or via e-mail at 
pnsc_sta21(at)navy.mil.  Nuclear target option policy change is the Nuclear 
Enlisted Community Manager, OPNAV N133D, at
(703) 604-5491/DSN 664, or via e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
