UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 251004Z MAY 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 135/18

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N09/MAY//

SUBJ/MOTORCYCLE READINESS//

RMKS/1. Tragically, we have lost eight shipmates in motorcycle accidents already this year and the peak riding 
season has only just begun. Ten years ago, 33 Sailors were killed in motorcycle crashes in one year. 33 Navy 
families were tragically impacted needlessly. We responded to those unacceptable losses with a training course for 
sportbike riders, better training facilities, and the implementation of command-level motorcycle safety 
representatives. We also established mentorship programs to ensure Sailors attended all required training. Ten 
years later, motorcycle deaths have been reduced, averaging 15 losses per year. But every life is important and the 
number of fatalities has unfortunately begun to rise again.

2. Unlike ten years ago, we already have the mitigation strategies and tools available to teach our riders how to 
protect themselves. However, we are not taking full advantage of them. Of the 21 riders killed in FY17, only 50 
percent had completed the required training. This is unacceptable. Training provides personnel with the riding 
skills they need to improve their defensive riding skills.

3. Command Leaders know who our motorcycle riders are and we must enforce the requirement for basic, 
advanced, and refresher training. This is not just a readiness and policy issue; it is a leadership issue at every level.

4. Finally, motorcycle riders are professional warfighters. They should never underestimate the risks they take on a 
motorcycle. It is ultimately their responsibility to be a qualified operator, to constantly manage their risk, to wear 
the appropriate personal protective equipment, and to ensure their bike is mechanically sound. While it is 
impossible to remove all risks associated with operating a motorcycle, it is possible to ensure that everyone has 
the training so that we might reduce the number of CACO calls on grieving parents, spouses and family members.

5. Released by ADM W. F. Moran, Vice Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
