UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 271855Z SEP 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 240/17

SUBJ/NAVY CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS MONTH

RMKS/1.  October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month and, given all the 
recent news on data breeches and hacking, this is a good time to focus on the 
persistent cyber threats and challenges facing the Navy.  It's important to 
focus on what each of us can do to keep our shipmates and operations secure.

2.  The cyber threat reaches beyond traditional information technology 
networks to systems that affect nearly every aspect of our Navy's missions, 
including operational technology (machinery controls, weapons, and navigation 
systems).  A successful cyber-intrusion - anywhere in the Navy - increases 
the risk that adversaries can move to other targets and pose risks to our 
missions and people.  Therefore, a mistake by one individual puts everyone 
and the mission at risk.  Adhering to cybersecurity policies, directives, and 
best practices is Commanders' business and requires an all hands approach to 
protect the Navy.

3.  During October, the Navy will be releasing social media content with five 
key themes:  The Cyber Threat is Real; The Anatomy of a Cyber-Attack; What 
the Navy is doing to Protect Itself in Cyberspace; Cybersecurity is an All 
Hands Effort; and How You Can Operate Securely Online at Home and at Work. 
The intent is to sustain a culture where cybersecurity discipline is a high 
priority and a daily habit so the Navy is vigilant about the persistent cyber 
threats it faces.

4.  The Department of Homeland Security also announced their themes for the 
National Cybersecurity Awareness Month effort:  Cybersecurity in the 
Workplace is Everyones Business; Todays Predictions for Tomorrows Internet; 
The Internet Wants You: Consider a Career in Cybersecurity; and Protecting 
Critical Infrastructure from Cyber Threats.  Additional information and 
resources on these topics can be found at: https://www.dhs.gov/national-
cyber-security-awareness-month.  Commands are encouraged to incorporate the 
outstanding Department of Homeland Security products in their internal 
cybersecurity training.

5.  Just like damage control, we depend on you to make cybersecurity a 
priority.  Whenever you log onto a Navy network or system, you are in the 
cyber battlespace.  Your commitment to cybersecurity will protect the Navy, 
contribute to our cyber fight, and assure our important operations.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral Jan E. Tighe, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
