UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 141619Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 218/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/ORDER TO UPDATE NAVY FAMILY ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM 
PERSONNEL CONTACT INFORMATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/23OCT14//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 3006.1, PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONJUNCTION WITH 
CATASTROPHIC EVENTS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the semi-annual update/verification of 
personal information in the Navy Family Accountability and Assessment System 
(NFAAS) by all Navy military and civilian personnel.  NFAAS is the system 
utilized by the Navy to account for personnel and their families during 
widespread natural or manmade disasters.  Accurate contact information of 
personnel and family members is required to facilitate a quick and accurate 
muster of personnel in affected areas.  Per reference (a), updates of 
personal information will be verified as current by 1 April and 1 October 
each year.

2.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy personnel, uniformed 
(active and reserve) and civilian and OCONUS contractors per the following:
    a.  It is required for all military personnel to update and verify 
contact information and all categories of dependents.
    b.  It is mandatory for non-bargaining unit civilian employees to update 
their contact information.  However, providing dependents information is 
voluntary.  Failure to provide dependent information may exclude them from 
receiving potential benefits, if applicable.
    c.  At this time, bargaining unit civilian employees are encouraged to 
provide their contact and dependent information on a voluntary basis, until 
union notification and subsequent impact and implementation bargaining takes 
place (when applicable).

3.  Echelon II commanders and all regional commanders will ensure widest 
dissemination to all subordinate and tenant commands and detachments for 
action as required.  All commanding officers (CO)/officers-in-charge (OIC) 
will ensure timely and accurate updates of Navy member and family member 
contact information as stated above.  COs/OICs will also contact the human 
resources office to request applicable union notifications.  This requirement 
also includes OCONUS contractors (must enter associated Unit Identification 
Code).  A report of those commands not in compliance with this NAVADMIN will 
be provided to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations for review.  All 
personnel may logon to NFAAS and update/verify contact information as 
required.

4.  Additionally, each command will institute policies requiring personnel to 
update their NFAAS data during the check-in and check-out process as standard 
practice.  Military members/dependents must also update NFAAS in any instance 
in which they make a permanent change of address.  Civilian non-bargaining 
unit employees must update their contact information and are encouraged to 
update their dependents information on a voluntary basis whenever there is a 
change.  Civilian bargaining unit employees are encouraged to update their 
information whenever there is a change.

5.  For military and civilian members to update contact data, utilize the 
NFAAS site at https://navyfamily.navy.mil.  Log in and update member 
information under the "my info" tab "contact information" section.  Update 
family member information under the "my info" tab "family member info" 
section.  Edit member and family member information as necessary and verify 
as current.  All family members enrolled in the exceptional family member 
program must be identified as such.

6.  The NFAAS site can also be accessed from any android, Iphone or 
blackberry mobile device*s web browser.  Although the application uses the 
same URL address as the NFAAS website, when accessed via mobile device, the 
site will be optimized to allow easy viewing and navigation.  The following 
limited capabilities are available via the mobile web application:
    a.  Update sponsor contact information
    b.  Enter evacuation location information
    c.  Allow users to muster
    d.  Allow users to complete a needs assessment

7.  Commands can validate contact information has been verified by using the 
personnel tab in NFAAS and use the "export to excel"
option.  Column N contains the date the contact information was last updated.

8.  A tool is available in NFAAS to allow commands to "pull"
personnel into their UIC.  This prevents information from incorrectly 
remaining in a previous UIC and not being accounted for in the current 
command within NFAAS.

9.  Points of contact:
    a.  NFAAS help desk/SPAWAR at (866) 946-9183 or via e-mail at 
nfaas(at)spawar.navy.mil.
    b.  Navy Personnel Command emergency coordination center at
(877) 414-5358 or via e-mail at NPC.CAT.Captain(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NFAAS Program Manager at (202) 433-9360 or via e-mail at 
julius.alba(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
