UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 121810Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 187/15

SUBJ/CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS STRATEGIC STUDIES GROUP SOLICITATION
FOR MASTER CHIEF PETTY OFFICER APPOINTMENT AS A DIRECTOR FELLOW//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

RMKS/1.  This message solicits nominations in support of a Chief of Naval 
Operations Strategic Studies Group (CNO SSG) request to select a master chief 
petty officer with expertise discussed in paragraphs 4 and 5 as a CNO SSG 
director fellow.  Nominations are due to CMDCM Jeffery Garrison, MCPON EA, no 
later than (NLT) 4 September 2015.

2.  Background:  CNO SSG is located in Newport, RI.  Working for and 
reporting only to the CNO, the sole mission of CNO SSG is the generation of 
revolutionary operating and warfighting concepts for the future Navy.  The 
CNO SSG experience is professionally rewarding, providing the opportunity to 
interact closely with other CNO SSG members, world-class experts, and a 
multitude of Navy, Department of Defense, and civilian leaders.

3.  The master chief does not function as a senior enlisted advisor or 
command master chief.  Rather, the master chief is one of approximately 35 
handpicked, top-quality professionals (O-2s to O-7s; GS-12s to GS-15s) from a 
wide variety of backgrounds that work as full partners and peers together 
addressing the CNOs theme.  Selection is not tied to the specific CNO theme 
or a specific technical/professional background.  Additional information 
about the CNO SSG is available on the U. S. Naval War College website at 
http://www.usnwc.edu/cnossg.

4.  Candidates need to be able to think from a variety of perspectives, to be 
willing and capable of challenging assumptions, and to be able to bring forth 
new, unconventional ideas.  Candidates will be reviewed based on their 
demonstrated performance, and potential to innovate on a scale that 
contributes to meeting a CNO-level, Navy-wide challenge.

5.  Eligibility:  While ratings CTM, CTN, CTT, ET, IS, and IT may be most 
useful due to technical dimensions of SSG work, any top performing active 
duty and reserve component master chief is eligible for nomination.  
Individuals nominated should also have demonstrated sustained superior 
performance, a high degree of initiative, demonstrated innovative thought, 
outstanding military appearance and exemplary military and professional 
conduct.  Nominees should also:
    a.  Be upwardly mobile with a strong potential for future service as a 
command, force, and fleet master chief;
    b.  Shall not reach high year tenure limits before November 2019;
    c.  Be able to function as a colleague in one or more concept teams;
    d.  At a minimum hold a secret clearance; however, TS/SCI eligibility is 
preferred; and
    e.  Be within 10 months of normal transfer window.  Commands may nominate 
other qualified master chiefs, but will not receive personnel relief during 
SSG tenure.

6.  E-mail packages in a pdf format to CMDCM Garrison NLT 28 August 2015.  
Packages must include:
    a.  Candidates application letter (two pages) explaining why they desire 
to serve with the CNO SSG, explaining what makes them a unique candidate, 
name/rank, and command name and contact information (commanding officers (CO) 
name, telephone and e-mail address).
Enclosures to the application letter should include:
        (1) Promotion history;
        (2) Active-duty assignments (with inclusive dates);
        (3) Military awards (personal, service, campaign);
        (4) Significant accomplishments in bulletized format emphasizing 
member's technical expertise and innovation;
        (5) Educational background (include degree certificates, 
certifications, training courses that highlight technical expertise and 
unique qualifications);        
  (6) Copy of nominee's performance summary report;
        (7) Copies of nominee's last three evaluations; and
        (8) Short biography (one page).
    b.  Command letter of endorsement (two pages) to include comments on 
professional and technical expertise, ability to function as part of a small 
team of diverse people, ability to innovate, and a clear statement explaining 
what makes this candidate unique.
    c.  Candidates should forward e-mail of intent to apply to CMDCM Garrison 
at jeffery.garrison(at)navy.mil NLT 28 August 2015.

7.  Selection and notification:  One master chief will be selected and 
notified via member's chain of command in September 2015.

8.  Special instructions:  Member report to the CNO SSG at the U.S. Naval War 
College in Newport, RI, NLT 1 December 2015 and will detach no earlier than 
30 June 2016.  While assigned to the CNO SSG, member will be authorized 
civilian clothing allowance in official orders. Upon completion of SSG 
duties, members may return to the losing command if sufficient time remains 
onboard before their normal projected rotation date (PRD).  However, commands 
should not anticipate receiving a relief prior to the member's normal PRD.  
Follow-on orders should be negotiated with member's detailer and have COs 
concurrence prior to reporting to the CNO SSG.

9.  Point of contacts are LCDR Jeffrey Somers, CNO SSG, at 401-841-3950 or 
via e-mail at jeffrey.somers(at)usnwc.edu, and CMDCM Jeffery Garrison, N00D, 
at 703-695-5591 or via e-mail at jeffery.garrison(at)navy.mil.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
