UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 232022Z MAR 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 067/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/NAVAL HISTORY AND HERITAGE COMMEMORATION - VIETNAM WAR//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

RMKS/1.  The U.S. Navy performed a wide array of missions during the Vietnam 
War.  In the air, it was a key partner with the U.S. Air Force during the 
Rolling Thunder and Linebacker air campaigns against North Vietnam, and in 
other air operations in Laos and Cambodia. On the coast, it developed a 
highly effective blockade to prevent the resupply of enemy forces by sea, 
engaged in naval gunfire support missions against enemy targets in the 
littoral areas of Vietnam, and provided amphibious transport for Marines 
operating in I Corps.  On the rivers, it stood up several task forces 
designed to protect commercial traffic, assist allied ground forces in 
pacifying these areas, and interdict enemy troops and supplies moving on 
these inland waterways.  The U.S. Navy also supported the war effort with a 
massive sea and riverine logistics operation, built and managed shore 
facilities throughout South Vietnam, and provided extensive medical support 
for the allied military operation.  A total of 1.842 million Sailors served 
in Southeast Asia.  The Navy provided the allied effort with many unique 
capabilities, the most significant being the projection of U.S. combat power 
ashore and control of the seas to support a land war in Asia far from the 
United States.  Overall, the Navy suffered the loss of 1,631 men killed and 
4,178 wounded during the course of the war.

2.  To ensure the sacrifices of the 9 million who served during this 
difficult chapter of our country's history are remembered for generations to 
come, President Donald Trump signed into law the Vietnam War Veterans 
Recognition Act of 2017, designating March 29 of each year as National 29 we 
will honor all those who answered our Nation's call to duty.
We vow to never again confuse personal disapproval of war with  prejudice 
ainst those who honorably wear the uniform of our Armed Forces.
With conviction, our Nation pledges our enduring respect, our continuing 
care, and our everlasting commitment to all Vietnam Veterans.

3.  Mission.  Meet the President's direction by honoring and recognizing 
Vietnam Veterans for their service to the Nation and Navy.

4.  Commander's Intent
    a.  Purpose.  Commemorate National Vietnam War Veterans Day throughout 
the Navy on 29 March, 2018.
    b.  Method.  Command-centric execution of a coordinated Navy-wide 
National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration.
        (1) Use available Navy outreach assets to maximum extent possible.
        (2) Be guided by, and supportive of, the Navy's strategic messaging.
    c.  End State:  The National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration 
becomes an institutionalized community outreach and Navy pride event for all 
Sailors, past and present, observed globally through the end of the 
commemoration in 2025.

5.  Tasks
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration.
    b.  Director, Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC)
        (1) Coordinate and support the execution of the commemoration events 
to include the execution of a Navy-wide observation and supporting community 
outreach events.
        (2) Conduct National Vietnam War Veterans Day Ceremony at Navy 
museums at 1200 local on 29 March 2018.
            (a) National Museum of the U.S. Navy.  Washington Navy Yard, 
Washington, DC.  POC: Mark Weber/mark.t.weber(AT)navy.mil/ 202-433-6901.
            (b) National Naval Aviation Museum.  Pensacola, FL.
POC: Sterling Gilliam/sterling.gilliam(AT)navy.mil/850-452-3604
x3118.
            (c) Naval War College Museum.  Naval Station Newport, Newport, 
RI.
POC: David Kohnen/ david.kohnen(AT)usnwc.edu/(401) 841-1296.
            (d) United States Naval Academy Museum.  U.S. Naval Academy, 
Annapolis, MD.
POC: Claude Berube/berube(AT)usna.edu/410-293-5275.
            (e) United States Navy Seabee Museum.  Naval Base Ventura County 
Port Hueneme, Port Hueneme, CA.
POC: Lara Godbille /lara.godbille(AT)navy.mil/805-982-5167.
            (f) National Museum of the American Sailor.  Naval Station Great 
Lakes, Great Lakes, IL.
POC: Jennifer Searcy/ jennifer.searcy(AT)navy.mil
/nmas.fct(AT)navy.mil/847-688-3154 x205.
            (g) Hampton Roads Naval Museum.  Norfolk, VA.
POC: John Pentangelo/john.pentangelo(AT)navy.mil/757-322-2990.
            (h) Navy Museums Northwest. Keyport, WA.
POC: Lindy Dosher/lindy.dosher(AT)navy.mil/360-396-4164.
       (3) Establish a Working Group (WG) of key stakeholders to oversee 
planning and program development for the NATIONAL VIETNAM WAR VETERANS DAY 
commemoration.
           (a) Director, NHHC will serve as chairman of the Navy Vietnam War 
50th commemoration WG.
           (b) Track Navy-wide commemoration plans as they develop and 
coordinate with WG members to identify and share available resources for the 
global execution of the National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration.
       (4) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander, U.S.
Fleet Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet 
(COMPACFLT), Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Regional 
Commanders, Commanding Officers (CO), and Officers in Charge (OIC).
           (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous commemorations.
       (5) Compile lessons learned from stakeholders and provide to DNS NLT 
16 April 2018.
    c.  COMUSFLTFORCOM; COMPACFLT; CNIC; Commander, Navy Reserve Force 
Command (COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Education and Training Command; 
and Commander, Naval Recruiting Command:
        (1) Provide representatives as necessary to support the WG.
        (2) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the National Vietnam 
War Veterans Day proclamation.
           (a) For commands located near a Navy Museum, consideration should 
be given to leveraging already existing event.
       (3) Execute the Communication Plan, disseminated by NHHC, and 
participate in planned community outreach activities as operationally 
feasible.
       (4) Provide National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration lessons 
learned to NHHC NLT 09 April 2018.
    d.  CHINFO
       (1) Provide representatives to the WG.
       (2) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 09 April 2018.

6.  Coordinating Instructions
    a.  Additional coordination instructions and tasking to be provided by 
separate correspondence (SEPCOR) as plans develop.

7.  Administrative
    a.  The National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration toolkit is 
available at the NHHC website (https://www.history.navy.mil/browse
-by-topic/commemorations-toolkits/Vietnam-War-Veterans-Day.html).
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

8.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC is Mr. Eric Ritter, at comm: (202)
685-1292 or via email: eric.d.ritter(AT)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral K. M. Donegan, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
