UNCLASSIFIED//

REROUTE DETECTED  

ROUTINE

R 091243Z OCT 14 PSN 984830K32

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR MARCH 2015// 

NAVADMIN 234/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/061710ZAUG07//

AMPN/NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the March 2015 
distance learning Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) program.  
The program will be taught in the Norfolk, Washington, DC, and San Diego 
fleet concentration areas, as well as Pensacola, Patuxent River, Lemoore, 
Corpus Christi, Jacksonville, Bangor, Hawaii and other satellite sites.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a 24-month, 
fully-funded, part-time graduate program focused on resource management.  The 
program prepares middle to senior grade active duty officers (O4 (select), 
O4, and O5), whose career paths preclude in-resident NPS graduate programs 
for positions requiring resource management expertise.

3.  The program begins with a one-week temporary additional duty resident 
program at the NPS campus in Monterey, CA.  Official travel orders and 
funding for TDY travel will be provided by the student's parent command.  If 
command funding is not available, students may fund their own travel and 
utilize no-cost temporary duty orders from their command.  During resident 
week, students will take a two-credit hour course in managing teams.  
Additionally, students will interact with the faculty who will be teaching 
throughout the program and master the skills required to learn via distance 
learning methods.  The NPS program is scheduled for the week of
16-20 March 2015.  A block of rooms has been reserved at the Navy Lodge, 
Monterey, for all attendees.  Optionally, the NPS bachelor officer quarters 
on campus may be utilized on a space available basis.  Bus transportation 
will be provided to and from the Navy Lodge for daily classes on the NPS 
campus to minimize costs.

4.  NPS faculty use video teleconferencing (VTC), internet, and other 
distance learning modes to teach the follow-on courses.
Students meet in VTC-capable classrooms once a week during normal duty hours 
for six to seven hours of instruction, taking two classes per quarter for 
eight quarters.  Students enter the EMBA program as a cohort and will take 
all courses together as a learning team (minimum 5 personnel).  All students 
must recognize that attending classes with their respective cohort is 
mandatory to complete the degree requirements.  VTC instruction will begin 
during the week of 30 March 2015.

5.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a 
regionally accredited four-year college or university, academic profile code 
of 245 (2.6 grade point average or higher on a 4 point
scale) and 2 pre-calculus courses with a grade average of B or better.  
Official transcripts must be forwarded to the director of admissions for 
evaluation, department head or similar mid-level management experience, 
strong potential for promotion, and command endorsement.  The graduate 
management admission test is not required.  Individuals desiring to 
participate in the program must have projected rotation dates that allow them 
to complete the full 24-month program at their selected location (no earlier 
than March 2017).  Graduates will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the 
Navy subspecialty code 3100P, financial management - defense focus.
Graduates are expected to serve in at least one financial management 
subspecialty coded billet as a follow-on assignment.

6.  Per reference (a), officers participating in this program must agree to 
remain on active duty following completion of graduate studies for a period 
of three years.  This obligation is discharged concurrently with any other 
service obligation already incurred.
This agreement does not obligate the Navy to retain the officer on active 
duty.

7.  Application deadline is 16 January 2015 for the March 2015 cohort.  
Submit applications with command endorsement in the format provided on the 
EMBA web site, www.nps.edu/emba/.  Applications may be submitted via fax or 
email to the point of contact listed in paragraph 9.

8.  All EMBA applicants must submit an on-line application available at 
http://www.nps.edu/Academics/Admissions/ApplyOnline/ApplyNow.html
at the earliest opportunity, but no later than 16 January 2015.

9.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office at (831)656-2562/DSN 756 
or via e-mail at emba(at)nps.edu.  Fax number is (831)656-3630/DSN 756.

10.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 31 December 2015, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#2376
NNNN

