UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 131510Z AUG 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 196/18
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/RATING MODERNIZATION PROGRESS UPDATE//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/1JAN16//

REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/211200ZDEC16//

REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/131828ZJUL17//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/161827ZAUG17//

REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/041505ZAPR18//

REF/F/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/141446ZJUN18//

NARR/REF A IS CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS DESIGN FOR MAINTAINING MARITIME 
SUPERIORITY.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 283/16, NAVY RATING MODERNIZATION NEXT STEPS.  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 174/17, REVISED NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION CODE 
CONSTRUCT.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 200/17, COMMANDING OFFICER AUTHORITY TO 
REINSTATE UP TO E4 RANK AND ELIMINATION OF E4 ADVANCEMENT EXAMS FOR 20 
RATINGS WITH ACCELERATED ADVANCEMENT.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 085/18, 
PROFESSIONAL MILITARY KNOWLEDGE ELIGIBILITY EXAM (PMK-EE).  REF F IS NAVADMIN 
144/18, ANNOUNCEMENT OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR THE FY-19 ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT-
TO- VACANCY SELECTION BOARD.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides an update and way ahead on the four rating 
modernization (RM) lines of effort (LOE): career fields, marketplace force management, 
advancement process, and credentialing.

2.  RM supports Sailor 2025 initiatives addressed in references (a) and (b) with the goals of 
redefining career fields, improving talent management and the detailing process, offering 
more career choices, and expanding professional development opportunities.  These 
initiatives are intended to increase Fleet readiness, sustainability, and fit.  The details 
provided below highlight the ongoing progress in each of the four RM LOEs:
    a.  Career fields.
        (1) Progress made:  As announced in reference (c), the alignment of ratings into 23 
career fields and 12 broad communities has provided a foundation for future development of 
more flexible career paths and the detailing marketplace.  RM enabled by Ready Relevant 
Learning is a key component of Sailor 2025.  As we transfer to Block Learning, the Navy has 
revised the Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) construct that organizes NEC codes according 
to their career fields.  In October 2017, March 2018, and June 2018 three groups of over 
850 NEC codes were successfully converted, thereby completing the transition to the new 
Navy NEC construct.
        (2) Way ahead:  By the end of 2018, the RM working group will complete the 
commonality matrix, a tool that will provide a robust capability to analyze similarities across 
ratings, skill sets, training curricula, credentials, and other relevant factors.
This capability will help both Sailors and Navy leadership identify opportunities for improving 
the transparency, flexibility, and sustainability of enlisted career paths.  More information 
about the revised NEC construct and communities and career fields can be viewed at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/nec/Pages/default.aspx.
    b.  Marketplace force management.
        (1) Progress made:  Based upon the urgent requirement to update and modernize our 
current personnel systems, methodologies to facilitate expanded career fields were 
developed, which will help transform enlisted force community and career management in 
the future.  The new marketplace will better balance needs of the Navy with the desires of 
the Sailor.  Several pilot efforts focused on comparing rating skill sets, training 
requirements and billet availability were conducted in 2017.  These pilots compared 
Yeoman/Personnel Specialist and Damage Controlman/Hull Maintenance Technician to 
determine viability and the appropriate inputs and possible components for building a future 
marketplace.
        (2) Way ahead:  A new *Navy Detailing Marketplace* is under development, 
establishing the foundational elements of an automated personnel management system that 
will tie Sailor enlistment directly to negotiating for a billet, allowing Sailors to reenlist or 
extend for that billet assignment.  The marketplace will be a single system that will leverage 
our new NEC construct to better represent qualifications, skills, experience, performance, 
and proficiency in the form of a resume of the Sailor.  Sailor resume will be available in the 
future under *My Record* on MyNavyPortal(MNP). Starting in Fiscal Year 2019, Sailors will 
be able to view all advertised billets they qualify for and then submit a resume that 
includes:
ASVAB scores, security clearance status, worldwide deployability, qualifications, evaluations, 
NECs earned, education degrees, and training certifications.  This resume will provide the 
ability to better match Sailors to billets, better information for both detailers and 
commands, who can then make sound, agile and transparent decisions.  U.S. Fleet Forces 
(USFF) Command is leading a sub-working group that will incorporate a fifth and sixth alpha 
numeric digit to the new NEC construct outlined in reference (c), to capture Sailor 
proficiency, performance, and experience in their rating and associated NECs.  This work will 
improve billet descriptions and improve Sailor matching to billets.  Some key concepts being 
explored in the marketplace include the ability to compare billets side-by-side, which will 
provide timely information to Sailors while they are considering their options for billets.
Representatives from Navy Personnel Command, USFF, and the Bureau of Naval Personnel 
are working collaboratively to conduct a Marketplace Detailing war game for the rating of 
Aerographers Mate (AG) in the Fall of 2018.  This war game will engage more than 70 
Sailors in a real world setting.  The simulated exercise will use actual billets and Sailors to 
study the Marketplace concepts and make improvements as necessary.  The intended 
outcome is a detailing process which is easier to understand, transparent and gives Sailors 
more control in the assignment decision process by displaying more billet options and 
providing incentives for selecting high-priority billets which meet the operational priority of 
the Fleet.  Examples of incentives under consideration include multiple tour details, 
incentive pay, advance-to-vacancy billets and educational opportunities.  One example of 
multiple tours bundled into a single detailing transaction could be a guaranteed sea duty 
assignment in the same geographic area following a shore duty assignment, specifically in 
fleet concentration areas such as Lemoore and other similar type locations.  Integrating 
these detailing incentives through the Marketplace platform will provide opportunities for 
geo-stability to Sailors and their family while meeting the priorities of the Fleet.
Additionally, the functional marketplace will be used by Sailors to transition between the 
Active and Reserve Components and to apply for rating conversions.  Sailors with training 
and special skills will have a more agile conversion process that leverages the Sailor resume 
and Marketplace Detailing data to inform them of where their skills best fit in the Navy.  The 
same tools will enable detailers to better harness those unique skill sets possessed by 
certain Sailors to fill critical jobs.  A conceptual Marketplace Detailing wireframe demo can 
be seen at http://detailing- marketplace.s3.amazonaws.com/search.htm.
    c.  Advancement process.
        (1) Progress made:  As outlined in reference (d), we have revised policy to eliminate 
rating exams for 20 E4 auto-advanced ratings.  Commands will have the ability to reinstate 
an E3 Sailor to E4 who had been awarded NJP, after a minimum 6 month waiting period.  
Late in 2017, we completed the first phase of the Advancement Exam Readiness Review 
(AERR) testing bank improvement plan that leverages the highly talented senior enlisted 
leaders selected by their Type Commands to create advancement exam questions that 
match current and relevant rating specific technical requirements with the hands-on, real-
world knowledge and experience needed in the Fleet.
        (2) Way ahead:  As a part of Sailor 2025 we are continuing to modernize enlisted 
advancements through several new initiatives to include the Professional Military Knowledge 
Eligibility Exam
(PMK-EE) outlined in reference (e), the online Enlisted Advancement Worksheet (EAW), and 
the Senior Enlisted Advancement to Vacancy
(A2V) Selection Board outlined in reference (f).  The establishment of the PMK-EE focuses 
the Navy Wide Advancement Exam (NWAE) on occupational knowledge and will serve as an 
eligibility requirement for advancement to paygrades E4/5/6/7.  PMK-EE will be delivered 
electronically, and will be available via the MyNavyPortal (MNP) website beginning in 
October 2018.  The online EAW will automate the manual advancement processes and 
enable Sailors to review their worksheets before the exam and take charge of their 
advancement records.  An EAW pilot, available through the Navy Standard Integrated 
Personnel System (NSIPS), will be implemented with the Active Duty and Reserve spring 
2019 advancement cycles.  These two steps will help us learn as we continue to work 
toward tailored advancement exams, delivered electronically to all.  The A2V pilot will fill 
senior chief petty officer and master chief petty officer priority billets using a spot 
advancement incentive and will lead Enlisted advancement modernization for exceptional 
Sailors in all paygrades with critical NECs in the future.  Tools like A2V will make important 
incentives available in the Marketplace Detailing.
The ultimate goal of the Navy, is to promote the right Sailor with the right skill in the right 
place at the right time.
    d.  Credentialing.
        (1) Progress made:  Navy Credentialing Opportunities On-Line
(COOL) currently funds over 2,700 certificates/licenses with opportunities for Sailors in 
every rating.  Navy COOL recently reduced the minimum service remaining on a Sailors 
enlistment contract requirement to earn credentials from 12 to 6 months, and expanded the 
opportunity for Sailors to earn credentials mapped to an academic degree or technical 
education certificate.  In addition, we have significantly improved opportunities for Sailors to 
maximize their Navy training and qualifications toward attainment of U.S.
Coast Guard (USCG) licenses, to include funding the Transportation Worker Identification 
Card.  These opportunities are highlighted in a dedicated *USCG National Maritime Center 
(NMC) Credentialing* tab for ratings with applicable USCG license alignment on the Navy 
COOL website.
        (2) Way ahead:  Sailors will be able to convert their military training records, billet 
assignment history, and other credentialing data to a compatible civilian resume by the end 
of fiscal year 2019.  Using those standardized data, Sailors can easily research information 
on civilian and federal occupations mapped to their ratings at 
https://www.cool.navy.mil/usn or via the Navy COOL app available on the Google Play store 
or iTunes.

3.  Representatives from across the Navy, at all levels, are contributing to the efforts in 
each of the four RM LOE working groups.  We are committed to ensuring that Fleet and 
Sailor input is incorporated into all RM efforts.  As a reminder, Fleet representatives are 
welcome to participate in the working groups.
Feedback or ideas can also be forwarded to USNPeople.fct(at)navy.mil.

4.  Other opportunities to learn more about RM include:  Fleet Engagement Team site visits, 
Career Development Symposiums, Navy COOL Fleet briefs, and direct contact with the 
Enlisted Plans and Policy Branch (OPNAV N132) RM team.

5.  Points of contact:
    a.  For general RM questions contact CAPT Angela Katson, Branch Head OPNAV N132, 
(703) 604-5024/DSN 664, or via email at angela.katson(at)navy.mil
    b.  For information on RM development, updates, and participation, or to join the 
discussions on RM subjects that are of interest to you, visit the N1 RM Working Group 
SharePoint page at https://mpte.navy.deps.mil/sites/opnav-
n1/rmwg/SitePages/Home.aspx.
    c.  For access questions or comments contact LCDR Barry Lu, RM Project Manager OPNAV 
N132, (703) 604-5440, or via email at barry.lu(at)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

