UNCLASSIFIED
ADMINISTRATIVE MESSAGE  
ROUTINE
R 252110Z OCT 17 ZYB
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS//

NAVADMIN 258/17

SUBJ/2017 ARMY-NAVY GAME SPIRIT SPOTS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/OCT//
POC/MR. DAMON MORITZ/CHINFO OI-2/ TEL: (703) 614-9154/
E-MAIL:  NAVYMEDIA(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This year's Army-Navy game is scheduled for Saturday, 9 December 
2017 at Lincoln Financial Field (Philadelphia).  CBS Sports will televise the 
game and will once again accept "Go Navy, Beat Army" video spots from the 
Navy and Marine Corps team to be considered for broadcast during the game.  
Please note that CBS generally only airs one spirit spot from each service, 
selected at their discretion.
    a.  Advanced notice of use by CBS is not possible. Videos may be played 
on the stadium's jumbotron at the game, also at the organizer's discretion.
    b.  The Navy Office of Information and Defense Media Activity will  push 
selected spots to a variety of media outlets, flagship web and broadcast 
platforms, and social media sites prior to the game to help generate esprit 
de corps and as a way of highlighting our naval forces.

2.  Requirements and best practices:
    a.  All spots must be submitted from a Navy or Marine Corps activity and 
release is embargoed until 4 December 2017.
    b.  Include the submitting command's name and location and include a "Go 
Navy, Beat Army" theme.  Ships, shore commands and Naval Academy brigade 
companies are highly encouraged to submit entries.
    c.  Avoid use of Navy or military jargon or acronyms.
    d.  Do not submit group/command/formation shout outs in which the group 
is shouting a message.
    e.  Experience has shown that submissions most likely to be successful in 
broadcast or social media sites are those with clean clear audio and that 
exhibit enthusiasm, humor, creativity and motivation.
    f.  Inclusion of Naval Academy graduates, unique locations, forward 
deployed locations and underway scenes are highly encouraged.  Focus on new 
platforms and capabilities are highly encouraged.
    g.  Spots cannot include copyrighted or sensitive material or music, make 
any official or implied endorsements, or present commands or the Navy in a 
negative light.
    h.  Spots should be broadcast quality in one of the following file 
formats:
        (1) Files should be at least 8 mb/s but no more than 100 mb/s and in 
mxf, mpeg, wmv, mp4, mov or avi file formats. M4v, flv and swf files are not
accepted.
        (2) Include a word document with the submitter?s points of contact, a 
suggested title, description and release authority.
        (3) All submissions must be in high definition (1920x1080 or 
1280x720) or ultra-high definition (4K).
    i.  If intended for CBS, spots must be 29 seconds or 59 seconds in 
length.  Spots intended for social media or other web-only outlets shall not 
be longer than two minutes.
    j.  Use high quality Navy branding graphics available for use on Navy.mil 
in the graphics gallery.
    k.  Submit only ready-to-air spots.  Neither CBS nor the Navy Office of 
Information will edit submissions.
   l.  Frame shots according to rules of good composition (avoid talking 
heads with no bodies) and avoid distracting backgrounds and inadvertent 
commercial product placement.
    m.  Good audio quality and sharp focus are paramount.  Poor audio quality 
is a primary reason for rejection.  Check for over modulated audio, weak 
audio, unclear voices or background noise prior to submitting.

3.  Support from Navy Public Affairs Support Elements, Defense Media Activity 
detachments or broadcast detachments are permissible on a not-to interfere 
with operational requirements basis.

4.  Commands are to send original, broadcast quality footage by electronic 
means, express shipment or fastest method available to the Navy Office of 
Information (OI-2).  Submissions must be received before 4 December 2017. 
Late submissions are not accepted.  Please consider very long shipping times 
(force protection at the Pentagon can take five days for any shipment) for 
overseas and deployed units.
    a.  Send to:  U.S. Navy Office of Information, Attn:  Damon Moritz, 1000 
Navy Pentagon, RM 4B463, Washington, DC, 20350-1000.  Uploads to 
video@imagery.navy.mil via the AMRDEC Safe Access File Exchange, DropBox or 
shared via Google Drive are also accepted.
    b.  Posts to DVIDS become public on upload.  Please be aware that this 
may violate the embargo and reduce the value of your entry. Email 
video@imagery.navy.mil with subject line "army-navy transmission" with any 
questions or concerns regarding file transfer information and assistance.

5.  Request widest possible dissemination of this message as this is an 
excellent means of highlighting Navy teamwork and the spirit of our Sailors 
and Marines forward deployed around the world. Go Navy, beat Army!

6.  Released by, VADM L. M. McCollum, Director, Navy Staff, Acting.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
