UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 262126Z FEB 15 PSN 757437H33
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 050/15

SUBJ/SAMUEL ELIOT MORISON NAVAL HISTORY SUPPLEMENTAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM FOR 
THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2015-2016

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//
REF/A/DOC/CNO/08JAN2015//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.24D, OFFICER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a), Director, Naval History and Heritage Command 
(NHHC) is calling for applications for the Samuel Eliot Morison Naval History 
Supplemental Scholarship Program for Academic Year 2015-2016.  The purpose of 
the scholarship is to promote development of a broad understanding of naval 
history within the American national experience.  Historical knowledge is an 
invaluable tool to place current issues in context and for leaders to make 
sound decisions.

2.  The scholarship is named in honor of the late Rear Admiral Samuel Eliot 
Morison, USNR, an eminent naval and maritime historian and winner of the 
Pulitzer Prize.  The scholarship awards $5,000 to one active duty 
commissioned officer of the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps with demonstrated 
leadership potential and high academic qualifications who is already pursuing 
graduate study in history, international relations, or a related field.  The 
award is to help pay for expenses related to research, travel, and the 
purchase of books or other educational materials.

3.  Any officer desiring to compete for the Samuel Eliot Morison Supplemental
Scholarship for study beginning in the fall of 2015 (Academic Year 2015-2016) 
should submit a letter of application via his/her Commanding Officer to the 
Senior Historian, NHHC, 805 Kidder Breese Street, SE, Washington D.C. 20374-
5060.  Applications must be received no later than 30 April 2015.  Note:  
Mail security procedures for federal agencies in the District of Columbia 
delay delivery for 3 to 5 business days beyond normal delivery times. 
Candidates are reminded to mail applications with adequate time for delivery 
or to use a commercial express delivery service. Applicants on deployment 
without regular mail access may submit applications by email to 
michael.crawford(AT)navy.mil.  Application packages should provide the 
following information:
   a.  University presently attending or to which application has been 
forwarded and the current status of that application.
   b.  Copy of officer biography.
   c.  A statement from the applicant that includes an outline of the 
proposed education program, degree objective, and major.
   d.  A copy of all official college/university graduate and postgraduate 
transcripts.
   e.  A statement not to exceed 500 words concerning the relationship of the 
Morison Scholarship to the applicant's interest and the value to be derived 
both by the individual and the Navy. Special consideration will be given to 
applicants who can connect their stated research interest to gaps in naval 
history as identified on NHHC?s website (http://www.history.navy.mil/get-
involved/grants-and-fellowships/research-priorities.html), or will make 
significant use of primary sources found in NHHC's Operational Archives or 
the Navy Department Library.
   f.  Commanding Officer's endorsement.

4.  The Director, NHHC will make final selection of the Morison Scholarship 
recipient and an alternate by 30 May 2015.  Selection of finalists will be 
based on the following:
   a.  Relevance of the chosen area of study to U.S. naval history.
   b.  Demonstrated professional performance with particular emphasis on the 
officer's specialty.
   c.  Academic ability.
   d.  The career needs of the officer.
   e.  Potential for professional growth.
   f.  Extent area of interest for research addresses NHHC identified gaps in 
naval history (see http://www.history.navy.mil/get-involved/grants-and
-fellowships/research-priorities.html).
   g.  Ability to  make significant use of primary sources found in NHHC's 
Operational Archives or special holdings in Navy Department Library.

5.  Point of contact:  Dr. Michael Crawford, at (202) 433-6936, or via e-mail 
at michael.crawford(AT)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#1586
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
