UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 021358Z APR 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 080/18
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/ORDER TO UPDATE NAVY FAMILY ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT
SYSTEM PERSONNEL CONTACT INFORMATION 2018//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/1MAR11//

REF/B/DOC/U.S.C./6SEP66//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 3006.1, PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY IN
CONJUNCTION WITH CATASTROPHIC EVENTS.  REF B IS UNITED STATES CODE
TITLE 5, GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the semi-annual update and
verification of personal information in the Navy Family
Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS) which is required no
later than 30 April 2018.  If a record has been updated in the
system between 1 October 2017 and 30 April 2018, that record is
considered validated for the 30 April 2018 deadline.  NFAAS is the
system utilized by the Navy to account for personnel and their
families during widespread natural or man-made disasters.  Accurate
contact information for personnel and family members is required to
facilitate a quick and accurate muster of personnel in affected
areas.  As directed in reference (a), updates of personal
information will be verified as current twice annually.

2.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy personnel,
uniformed (active duty and Reserve), Navy civilians, and outside
continental United States (OCONUS) contractors in line with the
subparagraphs 2a through 2c:
    a.  All military personnel must update and verify contact
information and update information for all categories of dependents.
    b.  All non-bargaining unit civilian employees must update their
contact information.  Providing dependent information is voluntary
but highly encouraged.  Failure to provide dependent information may
exclude them from receiving potential benefits, if applicable.
    c.  In line with reference (b) chapter 71, bargaining unit
civilian employees are highly encouraged to provide their contact
and dependent information on a voluntary basis, until union
notification and subsequent impact and implementation bargaining
takes place (when applicable).  Providing contact information is
critical to ensuring support to Department of the Navy civilians and
their dependents during the recovery period following a disaster.

3.  Echelon 2 commanders, region commanders, and region personnel
accountability representatives will ensure widest dissemination to
all subordinate, tenant commands, and detachments for action as
required.  All commanding officers (CO)/officers-in-charge (OIC)
will ensure timely and accurate updates of Navy and family member
contact information as stated above.  COs/OICs will also contact the
human resources office to request applicable union notifications.
This requirement also includes OCONUS contractors (must enter
associated unit identification code).  A report of those commands
not in compliance with this NAVADMIN will be provided to the Office
of the Chief of Naval Operations for review.  All personnel may
logon to NFAAS at https://navyfamily.navy.mil and update or verify
contact information as required.

4.  Additionally, each command will institute policies requiring
personnel to update their NFAAS data during check-in and check-out
as standard practice.  Military members and dependents must update
NFAAS any time they make a permanent change of address.  Civilian
non-bargaining unit employees must update their contact information
and are highly encouraged to update their dependents information on
a voluntary basis whenever there is a change.  Civilian bargaining
unit employees are also highly encouraged to keep their information
up to date whenever there is a change.

5.  For military and civilian members to update contact data,
utilize the NFAAS site at https://navyfamily.navy.mil.  Login and
update member information under the "My Info" tab, "Contact
Information" section, and update the work location of the sponsor.
Update family member information under the "My Info" tab, "Family
Member Info" section.  Edit member and family member information as
necessary and verify as current.  All family members enrolled in the
exceptional family member program must be identified as such.

6.  The NFAAS site can also be accessed from any android, iPhone, or
blackberry mobile device web browser.  Although the application uses
the same uniform resource locator address as the NFAAS website, when
accessed via mobile device, the site will be optimized to allow easy
viewing and navigation.  The following limited capabilities are
available via the mobile web application:
    a.  Update sponsor contact information.
    b.  Enter evacuation location information.
    c.  Allow users to muster.
    d.  Allow users to complete a needs assessment.

7.  CO representatives can validate contact information has been
verified by using the personnel tab in NFAAS and use the "Export To
Excel" option.  Column N contains the date the contact information
was last updated.

8.  A tool is available in NFAAS to allow commands to "pull"
personnel into their unit identification code (UIC).  This allows
the command representative to pull information into the correct UIC
to ensure accurate accountability within NFAAS.

9.  Points of contact:
    a.  NFAAS help desk/Space and Naval Warfare System Command at
(866) 946-9183 or via e-mail and can be reached at
nfaas(at)spawar.navy.mil.
    b.  Navy Personnel Command emergency coordination center and can
be reached at (877) 414-5358 or via e-mail at
npc.cat.captain(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NFAAS Program Manager, Chief Isa Grace and can be reached at
(202) 433-4321 or via e-mail at isa.n.grace(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or
canceled, whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
