UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 011705Z SEP 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/UNIFORM POLICY CHANGES//

NAVADMIN 208/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//
REF/A/DOC/NAVPERS 15665I/1JAN11//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVPERS 15665I, UNITED STATES NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces uniform policy changes for the following 
Navy uniforms and uniform components:  Navy Working Uniform Type I (NWU1), 
Navy blue coveralls, Navy all weather coat, cold weather parka, Navy knit 
watch cap (black), boat cloak and capes, tiara, beret, overshoes, khaki 
windbreaker, and the Command-at-Sea and Command Ashore/Project Manager 
insignia.

2.  NWU1.  Commencing 1 October 2015, the requirement for the number of NWU1 
uniforms maintained by Sailors in their sea bag will decrease from four to 
three sets.  Enlisted clothing replacement allowances will be adjusted to 
support issuing three sets of NWU1s with a replacement cycle of one set every 
twenty-four months.

3.  Navy Blue Coveralls.  Commencing 1 October 2015, the Navy blue coverall 
will be discontinued as a Navy uniform and re-designated as a dirty work 
component.  The Navy blue coverall will be worn only to perform work that 
would otherwise soil other Navy uniforms while performing the same task.   
All accoutrements except for name tapes are to be removed.  The wearing of 
Navy head gear is optional, but when doing so in a covered area, salutes are 
required to be rendered. Head gear will be worn per current Navy coverall 
uniform policy guidelines.  Two sets of coveralls will continue to be issued 
and required to be maintained in the sea bag for all enlisted Sailors. 
Enlisted clothing replacement allowances will continue to be provided to 
facilitate issuing two sets of Navy blue coveralls with a replacement cycle 
of one set every 12 months.  This policy decision is predicated on the 
required wear of the flame resistant coverall at sea and the NWU1 ashore as 
the standard daily working uniform.

4.  All Weather Coat.  Commencing 1 October 2015, the double-breasted all 
weather coat will be issued to recruits at Recruit Training Command,
Great Lakes and will be designated as the standard all weather coat for the 
Navy.  The single-breasted All Weather Coat will remain optional for wear 
until 1 October 2020.  Enlisted clothing replacement allowances will be 
adjusted to support issuing one double-breasted All Weather Coat and 
replacement of the existing single breasted all weather coat by 1 October 
2020.

5.  Cold Weather Parka.  Commencing 1 October 2015, an optional black cold 
weather parka (CWP) will be authorized for wear with service and service 
dress uniforms.  Estimated availability in the Navy Exchange is November 
2015.  The CWP may also be worn with civilian clothing when the rank tab is 
removed.  The optional CWP is made of a water proof and wind resistant 
fabric.  Features of the CWP include a hidden hood, center-chest rank tab and 
ability to support the zip-in zip-out NWU1 fleece liner for additional cold 
weather protection.  The CWP will be available for purchase at the NEX 
uniform stores at Norfolk Naval Base, Joint Base Myer Henderson Hall, and
Newport, Rhode Island, as well as at the NEX Uniform Support Call Center 30 
November 2015 for a price of $330.90.

6.  Navy Black Knit Watch Cap.  The intent of this policy is to expand the 
wear of the black knit watch cap as a cold weather head gear option.  
Commencing 1 October 2015, the Navy knit watch cap can be worn by officers, 
chief petty officers and enlisted personnel during cold weather conditions 
that may result in personal injury if not worn. Authorization for wear will 
be granted by unit commanding officers (at sea) or regional commanders 
(ashore).  The black knit watch cap is authorized for wear with the service 
dress and service uniforms, except service dress white and summer white 
uniforms when worn with appropriate outer wear (specifically, NWU and black 
cold weather parka, all weather coat, reefer, pea coat and bridge coat).  The
Eisenhower jacket is not considered cold weather outer wear.

7.  Effective 1 October 2016, the following uniform components will be 
discontinued and will be no longer authorized for wear with the Navy uniform.  
The infrequent use, procurement and low demand requirements of these items 
precipitated the decision to delete their use as Navy uniform components.
    a.  Officer/CPO Boat Cloak (male)
    b.  Officer/CPO Dress Cape (female)
    c.  Officer/CPO Khaki Windbreaker (male/female)
    d.  Tiara (female)
    e.  Beret (female)
    f.  Overshoes (male/females)

8.  Command-at-Sea and Command Ashore/Project Manager Insignia. Effective 
immediately, the Command at Sea and Command Ashore/Project Manager insignia 
is authorized for wear by all eligible officers to include Flag officers who 
held command position prior to obtaining Flag rank.  For Flag officers, the 
Command at Sea and Command Ashore/Project Manager Insignia will be worn in 
the post tour position.  If both pins were earned, officers may choose to 
wear the command pin of their choice.  Flag officers may not earn a command 
pin.

9.  Questions regarding uniform policy and the uniform policy changes 
reflected in this NAVADMIN should be directed to the Navy Uniform Matters 
Office (OPNAV N131U) via e-mail to Mr. Robert B. Carroll, Head of Navy 
Uniform Matters at robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil; LSCS(AW/EXW/SW) Judith P. 
Nelson-Williams, Deputy Head, at judith.nelson (at)navy.mil; PS1 (SW/AW) 
Manuel A. Guiracocha at manuel.guiracocha(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.   File until reference (a) has been updated to 
reflect the new policy changes.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//
BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
