UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 281407Z OCT 19 MID110000118785U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 242/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
COMNAVIFOR SUFFOLK VA//N13//
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/OCT//

SUBJ/ENLISTED CYBER MASTER OF SCIENCE DEGREE OPPORTUNITY AT NAVAL 
POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30JAN07//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/07JAN15//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.8A, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS PROGRAM.
REF B IS OPNAVINST 1520.23C, GRADUATE EDUCATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits enlisted Sailor applications for enrollment 
in the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) 12-month Master of Science in Applied 
Cyber Operations (MACO) program.  This opportunity is one of many efforts to 
increase cyber capabilities for the Navy, while building a professional cyber 
workforce.

2.  Selectees will be assigned to Navy-funded education as full-time students 
under permanent change of station orders to Monterey, CA, with either a 
September 2020 or March 2021 start.  As full-time students, Sailors will be 
required to carry a full academic load year-round.  Degree requirements 
should be completed in 12 months.

3.  This program is only available to Active Duty and Full-Time Support 
members in the Information Systems Technician (IT) and Cryptologic Technician 
-Networks (CTN) ratings, who meet the following criteria:
    a.  Must possess a Bachelor of Science degree in a relevant technical 
field including, but not limited to, computer science, electrical 
engineering, and information or engineering technology.  The degree must have 
been awarded by an institution of higher learning accredited by a regional 
accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.  To meet 
NPS academic requirements, performance in technical courses, including 
mathematics, must be exemplary.
    b.  Must be an E6 or above eligible for continental United States shore 
assignment between April and December 2020 for the September 2020 start, or 
between October 2020 and June 2021 for the March 2021 start.
    c.  Must be eligible to incur a five year Active Duty service obligation 
by reenlistment or extension of enlistment prior to NPS enrollment.  
Selectees will be required to reenlist more than one year earlier, if they 
are unable to satisfy the five year obligated service requirement.  Pursuant 
to reference (a), payment of the selective reenlistment bonus is not 
authorized for selectees who reenlist for the purpose of meeting the 
obligated service requirement.
    d.  Must be within Physical Fitness Assessment (PFA) standards, with no 
PFA failures within the last three years.
    e.  Must have no evaluation marks below 3.0 within the last five years.
    f.  Must hold, or be eligible for, a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented 
Information (TS/SCI) clearance.  Applicants without a current TS/SCI 
clearance are still encouraged to apply, but should work with their Special 
Security Office to initiate the clearance request.  Orders to NPS will not be 
issued until TS/SCI clearance is finalized.
    g.  Must possess a conditional letter of acceptance.  To obtain a 
conditional letter of acceptance, Sailors should apply to NPS at 
http://www.nps.edu/academics/admissions/applyonline/applynow.html.  Once 
registered, Sailors should select Applied Cyber Operations, curriculum number 
336.  Upon application submission, Sailors must arrange for submission of 
official transcripts to the NPS admissions office from each institution 
attended for all undergraduate and graduate education, as well as all 
Sailor/Marine American Council on Education Registry Transcripts, or Joint 
Services Transcripts.  NPS applications must be submitted to NPS no later 
than
31 December 2019.  Sailors will be notified by NPS via e-mail regarding their 
conditional acceptance.

4.  Upon selection, Sailors must request (via Command Career Counselor) an in 
-rate quota in the Career Waypoints (C-WAY) system.  Those not in their C-WAY 
window should submit a Special Circumstance application indicating reason 
code of Other.  The career counselor will be prompted to add a note 
indicating selection to the Master of Science in Applied Cyber Operations 
Program.  If selected via Special Circumstance application, this program does 
not guarantee award of an in-rate C-WAY quota, and is not considered part of 
a performance indicator of the individual in the C-WAY process.

5.  Prospective applicants should contact their detailer immediately to 
inform of intent to apply for the program, and potential impact to current 
assignment.  Failure to do so may result in withdrawal of selection. 
Graduation from the program will impact follow-on tours and may result in 
limited detailing opportunities for future assignments.

6.  Graduates of the MACO program will earn the H07A Navy Enlisted 
Classification (previously 2770-Applied Cyber Operations Master), and should 
expect to serve in a utilization tour immediately following graduation.  For 
ITs, utilization tours shall include operational (Cyber) shore billets and 
sea billets (when available).  Further utilization for program graduates will 
be appropriately balanced with other priorities, such as career progression, 
sea/ shore tour rotation, etc.

7.  Sailors in receipt of a letter of conditional acceptance from NPS should 
forward a written request for MACO selection via their Commanding Officer.  
The nomination template is posted to the Navy Information Warfare Outreach 
page on milSuite at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-526186 (Common 
Access Card e-mail certificate login required).  The template includes 
additional documents, which must be included for consideration.

8.  The Commanding Officer endorsement should address the preparedness for 
this significant academic opportunity, ability to work independently, 
communication skills, potential for increased responsibilities, and any 
special considerations regarding the Sailor.

9.  Applications can be sent via encrypted e-mail to 
christopher.mikell(at)navy.mil or via DOD SAFE (https://safe.apps.mil/) 
within two weeks of notification of conditional acceptance by NPS.

10.  Prior application submissions to this program do not disqualify a Sailor 
from applying.  However, applicants who did not receive conditional 
acceptance from NPS, and have no additional academic qualifications, should 
not apply again, as the academic standards have not changed.

11.  Selection results will be disseminated via NAVADMIN.  Due to the highly- 
competitive nature of this program, notification of selection via NAVADMIN is 
a binding commitment which selectees must accept or decline within five 
working days following release of the message.

12.  Instructions to sign up for education program notification are available 
at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-
qualifications/e-graduate-education-and-fellowship-programs.

13.  Point of contact is LT Christopher Mikell, (757) 203-3128, 
christopher.mikell(at)navy.mil.

14.  This message will remain in effect until superseded, or 30 June 2021, 
whichever occurs first.

15.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

