UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 241641Z SEP 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 238/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-20 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE E9, E8, AND E7 SELECTION BOARD 
MEMBERSHIP NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/10SEP14//

AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5B, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S.
NAVY SELECTION BOARDS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits enlisted selection board participants for the 
FY-20 Navy Active-Duty and Reserve Master Chief, Senior Chief and Chief Petty 
Officer Selection Boards.  The experience gained from exposure to the 
selection board process is beneficial to all senior enlisted leaders.  Every 
master chief petty officer, not otherwise restricted from participating in an 
enlisted selection board, is strongly encouraged to serve as a member on an
FY-20 enlisted selection board.  To ensure board membership requirements are 
met, I encourage immediate superior in command and/or type commander 
leadership to seek out the best board member candidates within your purview 
and invite them to submit an application.

2.  FY-20 enlisted board schedule:
Reserve/FTS E9/E8 (combined) - 4 through 15 March 2019 Active-Duty E9 - 1 
through 12 April 2019 Active-Duty E8 - 22 April through 10 May 2019 
Reserve/FTS E7 - 20 May through 7 June 2019 Active-Duty E7 - 24 June through 
19 July 2019

3.  Member and recorder applications due dates:
Reserve/FTS E9/E8 (combined) - 10 December 2018 Active-Duty E9 - 17 December 
2018 Active-Duty E8 - 11 January 2019 Reserve/FTS E7 - 8 February 2019 
Active-Duty E7 - 15 March 2019

4.  Prior to submitting an application, review reference (a) which can be 
found at: http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/instructions/bupersinstructions/documents/1401.5B.pdf.
In addition to membership criteria contained in reference (a) and on the 
application form (NAVPERS 1400/2), the following apply to selection board 
nominees:
    a.  Shall not have a relative (defined in reference (a)) serving on the 
same board in any capacity.
    b.  Shall list all Navy relatives (active duty or reserve) on the 
application form along with their rank/rate, even if not board eligible.
    c.  Shall not have been a member of the same board in the previous year.
    d.  Shall not be the subject of an investigation of any kind.
    e.  If under care for any severe medical issues, shall consult with a 
treating physician regarding the possibility of travel away from duty station 
in the time frame indicated.  This is not a requirement for endorsement of 
the request by a medical provider.

5.  Additional information pertaining to selection board membership:
    a.  Frocked master chiefs may participate as selection board members and 
are encouraged to apply.
    b.  In select circumstances, Navy Personnel Command may provide permanent 
change of station (PCS) order modifications if an applicant with PCS orders 
is selected to serve on an enlisted selection board.  Selected board members 
should contact LCDR Joseph A. Gueary at (901)874-4162/DSN 882 or via e-mail 
at pers- 805.fct(at)navy.mil, if this applies.  Do not contact your detailer 
directly as they may be eligible for the board.
    c.  Sailors desiring to sit on a selection board who are attached to 
deployed units will not normally be approved.  In rare circumstances, and 
driven by needs of the board, concurrence on the application from a Fleet 
Master Chief is required.  Applicants who PCS to a deployable unit after 
having submitted an application should notify PERS-805.  If the unit is due 
to deploy during or close to the board date, applicants should request their 
application be revoked.
    d.  Active and reserve component master chiefs are encouraged to apply 
for any of the above boards.  There are no restrictions preventing a Sailor 
of one component from serving on a board of the other.
    e.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders on any of the above boards for which they are 
not eligible.  In addition, senior chief petty officers may apply to be a 
member on the reserve or active-duty E7 boards.  Petty officers (E6 and 
below) may not serve on the boards in any capacity.  Recorders must be 
stationed CONUS, no exceptions.

6.  The application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) can be downloaded from
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx

7.  The signed application must be endorsed by the members commanding officer 
(CO) and forwarded directly to their cognizant force/fleet master chief 
(FORCM/FLTCM).  The FORCM/FLTCM will forward endorsed applications to PERS-
805 via e-mail at pers- 805.fct(at)navy.mil or will return the endorsed 
applications to the member for submission.  In circumstances where the 
applicant is assigned to a joint command or otherwise does not have a 
FORCM/FLTCM, the application should be sent to PERS-805 by the commands 
senior enlisted leader (SEL), provided the SEL is not eligible for 
advancement on the board for which the applicant is submitting.  If you are 
unsure of your circumstance, please contact PERS-805.

8.  Do not use request chits and do not forward applications through your 
commands administrative support personnel, including those of the command 
master chief (CMC), CO or those of your FORCM/FLTCM.
This will compromise board membership and invalidate your application.  
Applications go directly to the CMC.  Forms received from, or routed through, 
individuals other than the applicant or the FORCM/FLTCM, except as specified 
in paragraph 7 above, will not be considered.

9.  Board membership will be held in the strictest confidence.  Once you 
submit an application a policy of non-disclosure has been ordered by Deputy 
Chief of Navy Personnel (DCNP).  Do not discuss applications or selection, if 
chosen to serve on a board, with anyone other than the CO, reporting senior, 
CMC, chief of the boat, cognizant FORCM/FLTCM or board support personnel at 
NPC.  It is appropriate for a member to advise their CMC of their pending 
board service.  However, the CMC may not disclose their own service on a 
board to anyone other than the CO.  Failure to adhere to this policy is a 
direct violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and will result in 
removal from the board and possible administrative or disciplinary action by 
DCNP.

10.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominees application and 
availability to serve as a selection board member.
CO concurrence is required.  If the CO initiates or becomes aware of an 
investigation after the initial nomination is submitted, notify the points of 
contact below immediately.  COs, CMCs and applicants should understand that 
once selected, the member is under official orders to the board and requests 
for removal from board duties will not be granted except in extreme cases as 
specified in reference (a).

11. Points of contact:
    a.  Mr. Donald Marshall at (901)874-3223/DSN 882
    b.  LCDR Joseph Gueary at (901)874-4162/DSN 882
    c.  pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

