UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 161847Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 207/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-17 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY GRADUATE EDUCATION PLUS TEACHING 
PROGRAM//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30APR06//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1524.2, GRADUATE EDUCATION PLUS TEACHING
(GET) PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the application procedures for the
FY-17 Graduate Education Plus Teaching (GET) program.  The United States 
Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking motivated, academically and professionally 
qualified unrestricted line officers for the FY-17 GET Masters program.  
Selected officers will serve as both instructors and role models for our 
future naval officers.

2.  The GET program provides approximately 12 months of graduate education at 
a selected civilian institution in the Baltimore, MD or Washington, DC area 
directly followed by a two-academic-year teaching assignment at USNA as an 
officer-instructor, resulting in a 36-month combined tour.

3.  Reference (a) provides specific information regarding available 
disciplines and graduate schools as well as application guidance.
Additional information can be found on the USNA website at
http://www.usna.edu/Academics/Faculty-Information/Faculty-Officer-
Opportunities.php.  After accessing the website, proceed to the drop-down 
menu titled Graduate Education and Teaching.

4.  Community-specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional eligibility 
requirements follow:
    a.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG 12.
        (2) Submarine Officer Distribution (PERS-42), will review all 
applications and recommend for selection top performing officers who can meet 
submarine officers advanced course (SOAC) gate at 7.5 years of commissioned 
service.  SOAC attendance and completion of a department head tour are 
required following completion of USNA assignment.
    b.  Surface:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG 12-14 Surface Warfare qualified officers who 
have demonstrated superior performance and upward career mobility, and are 
able to execute a 36-month (minimum) shore duty tour.  Officers should 
complete the 36-month program in time to begin department head school no 
later than the 7.5 year of commissioned service.
        (2) Department Head Retention Bonus (DHRB) contract must be submitted 
immediately upon selection for the GET program.
Department head school attendance and completion of two complete department 
head tours as defined by Surface Warfare Officer Assignments (PERS-41), are 
required following completion of USNA assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG 10-12 upon completion of first sea tour.
        (2) All other applicants may be considered on a case-by-case basis 
with eligibility determined by Aviation Officer Assignment (PERS-43).

5.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to your cognizant detailer.  A 
sample can be found at http://www.usna.edu/Academics/ Faculty-
Information/Faculty-Officer-Opportunities.php.  The application package must 
include:
        (1) Completed application page (pdf fillable version found at the 
website above).
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past 12 months).
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the reason for the 
application to the GET program, how the program fits into your career goals, 
and your expectations with respect to the program.
        (4) Biography (follow the format provided on the website above).
        (5) All higher education transcripts.
        (6) Chain-of-command endorsement (required).
        (7) Additional letters of recommendation (desired, not required).
    b.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the cognizant 
detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All applications will be vetted 
through detailers to verify career timing impact.

6.  Timeline:
    a.  Surface warfare officers, please refer to your community detailers 
guidance.
    b.  24 October 2016:  Application deadline for submarine and aviation 
warfare officers.
    c.  31 October 2016:  Applications forwarded to USNA for 
selection/approval.
    d.  12 December 2016:  USNA final selections made and forwarded to 
Commander, Navy Personnel Command.
    e.  19 December 2016:  No later than date for applicants to be informed 
of selection/non-selection.
    f.  June - August 2017:  Selectees report to graduate school based upon 
curriculum start dates.

7.  Points of contact are LT Galo Cavalcanti at (901) 874-3616/DSN
882 or via e-mail at galo.cavalcanti(at)navy.mil; and CAPT Owen Thorp who can 
be reached at (410) 293-6122/DSN 281 or via e-mail at thorp(at)usna.edu.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until canceled or superseded, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED///
