UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 151503Z JUL 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 157/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/SEA SHORE FLOW ENLISTED CAREER PATHS UPDATE FOR NUCLEAR TRAINED JUNIOR 
STAFF INSTRUCTORS//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/101615ZDEC15//
NARR/ REF A IS NAVADMIN 284/15, SEA SHORE FLOW ENLISTED CAREER PATHS UPDATES 
FOR NUCLEAR TRAINED ENLISTED PERSONNEL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the update to the sea and shore flow for 
enlisted career paths for nuclear-trained Junior Staff Instructors (JSI).  
The Nuclear Propulsion Program Manager Branch (OPNAV N133) and Navy Personnel 
Command, Enlisted Submarine and Nuclear Power Assignments Branch (PERS-403) 
gathered feedback from the Fleet and performed a comprehensive review of the 
nuclear enlisted Sea Shore Flow (SSF) policy for Sailors who serve as JSI at 
nuclear power training units.  The review identified that modifications to 
the current SSF outlined in reference (a) are required to ensure the 
continued success of the JSIs who represent a highly talented component of 
the nuclear enterprise.  Specifically, more opportunity is needed for Sailors 
to qualify as the Engineering Watch Supervisor (EWS)/Propulsion Plant Watch 
Supervisor (PPWS) during the first sea tour, and additional time is needed 
before the 10-year sea gate to avoid shortening the first shore tour.

2.  These career path updates will increase leadership experience during the 
first sea tour, improve chief petty officer advancement opportunity by 
providing more time for EWS/PPWS qualifications and maintain cumulative shore 
tour length higher than non-JSIs for an entire career.  The major 
modifications to the JSI SSF provided in reference (a) are as follows:

    a.  Lengthens the first sea tour from 40 months to 48 months.
    b.  Maintains the first shore tour at 30 months.
    c.  Changes the second and subsequent shore tours to 36 months by 
removing extra time normally designated for training and qualifications.
    d.  Updates the career milestone gates for JSIs to account for the 
initial JSI tour.  The first gate will shift from 10 years of Active-Duty 
service to 11 years (a Sailor should start their second sea tour prior to 
this gate) and the second gate will shift from 17 years of Active-Duty 
service to 17.5 years (a Sailor should start their third sea tour prior to 
this gate).
    e.  Factors in 1 month of nominal transfer time and leave between duty 
stations.  Previously, the SSF did not factor in this transfer time between 
the first shore tour and second sea tour.

3.  The updated JSI SSF is displayed in paragraph 4.  The initial training 
pipeline for all JSIs remains at a nominal length of 24 months, followed by a 
24-month JSI tour.  Sea tours are annotated below as SEA and shore duty is 
annotated as SHR.  All numbers in paragraph 4 are in months.  This NAVADMIN 
modifies the SSF outlined in reference (a) for JSIs only.  The SSF discussed 
in reference (a) for Sailors who do not serve as a JSI remains the same until 
superseded.

4.  The SSF is modified as follows for a Sailor who serves as a JSI after 
completing a 24-month JSI tour:

SEA1 SHR1 SEA2 SHR2 SEA3 SHR3 SEA4 SHR4
48   30   40   36   40   36   40   36

note:  The 1 month of transfer time between duty stations is not included in 
the tour lengths shown above.

5.  For JSIs who advance to chief petty officer during their second sea tour, 
that tour length will normally be adjusted to allow the Sailor the ability to 
complete the leading chief petty officer tour.
In most cases, this will enable the Sailor to complete their engineering 
department master chief or divisional leading chief petty officer tour during 
their third sea tour prior to 20 years of service.

6.  These policy changes require close coordination between the command, each 
JSI and PERS-403 to facilitate a smooth transition to the new SSF.  Commands 
are encouraged to provide a list of their JSI-served Sailors to OPNAV N133 
via e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil to ensure correct application of the 
updated SSF.  To implement these changes, the following Projected Rotation 
Date (PRD) adjustment guidelines are provided:

    a.  Effective immediately, all new JSI sea and shore orders issued by 
PERS-403 will comply with the tour lengths shown in paragraph 4.
    b.  The 11-year gate and 17.5-year gate will be in effect for JSIs 
immediately upon the release date of this NAVADMIN.  Waivers must be routed 
if required to exceed these gates.
    c.  To allow Sailors and their families time to plan for potential future 
duty station changes, PRD changes should be made using the following 
guidance:
        (1) For JSIs on their first sea tour:
            (a) Sailors within their Career Management System Interactive 
Detailing (CMS-ID) negotiating windows (nominally within
12 months of their previously established PRD) or who have follow-on shore 
orders will maintain their current PRD (i.e., their PRD will not be shifted 
to a later date).
            (b) Sailors who have been onboard greater than 12 months but are 
not yet within a CMS-ID negotiating window may request to extend their PRD to 
48 months by routing an electronic Personnel Action Request (ePAR 1306) via 
MyNavy Portal (MNP) that is endorsed by the command specifically requesting 
the PRD change.
            (c) Sailors who have been onboard less than 12 months will have 
their PRD shifted to align to the new SSF.
        (2) For JSIs on their first shore tour (following their first sea 
tour), the updated 11-year gate is intended to ensure Sailors receive the 
full shore tour:
            (a) Sailors with shore tours less than 30 months due to 
adjustments made to meet the 10-year gate may request to extend their PRD to 
achieve a tour length of up to 30 months (but no later than the 11-year 
point) by routing an ePAR 1306 via MNP that is endorsed by the command 
specifically requesting the PRD change.
            (b) Sailors whose previously-established PRD enabled a full 30-
month shore tour will rotate to sea at their current PRD.
        (3) JSIs on their second sea tour should expect to rotate at their 
PRD.
        (4) For JSIs on their second shore tour, the updated 17.5- year gate 
is intended to ensure Sailors receive the full shore tour:
            (a) Sailors with shore tours less than 36 months due to 
adjustments made to meet the 17-year gate may request to extend their PRD to 
achieve a tour length of up to 36 months (but no later than the 17.5-year 
point) by routing an ePAR 1306 via MNP that is endorsed by the command 
specifically requesting the PRD change.
            (b) Sailors whose previously established PRD enabled a full 36-
month shore tour will rotate to sea at their current PRD.

7.  A downloadable graphic that displays the updated SSF is available on the 
OPNAV N133 website via MNP at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning, 
select the *Enlisted Community Managers* link, select the *Nuclear* tab in 
the gray banner, then select the *CCC Toolbox* link.  Commands are encouraged 
to download this product and post it for Sailors to review.

8.  Points of contact.  For all questions and concerns, commands and Sailors 
should contact the following individuals:

    a.  Nuclear Enlisted Community Management Team
        (1) LCDR Lacy Lodmell at (703) 604-5493/DSN 664 or 
via e-mail at lacy.lodmell(at)navy.mil.
        (2) MMNCM(SW) Cameron Cuskey at (703) 604-5491/DSN 664 or 
via e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil.
        (3) EMNCS(SW/AW) Carlos Britos at (703) 604-5492/DSN 664 or 
via e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil.
    b.  PERS-403
        (1) CAPT John Howrey at (901) 874-3636/DSN 882 or 
via e-mail at john.howrey(at)navy.mil.
        (2) EMNCM(SS) Angelo Galindo at (901) 874-4696/DSN 882 or 
via e-mail at nuclearkhaki(at)navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

