RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0108 1331514-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 131514Z MAY 14 PSN 430258K22
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS//
BT
UNCLAS//N01650//
NAVADMIN 108/14
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY//

SUBJ/2014 BOB FELLER ACT OF VALOR AWARD//

POC/TODD MARTIN/MR./NAVCO/LOC: MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:(901) 874-5805/ 
EMAIL: TODD.MARTIN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN solicits nominations for the second annual Bob Feller 
Act of Valor Award.

2. Background. The Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation established this 
prestigious award in 2013, named in honor of Major League Baseball (MLB) 
pitcher, National Baseball Hall of Fame (NBHOF) inductee, and Navy veteran 
Bob Feller. Mr. Feller enlisted in the Navy shortly after the attack on Pearl 
Harbor while he was with the Cleveland Indians.  He served aboard USS Alabama 
(BB 60) as a Gun Captain, and during his time onboard, the ship fought in 
both World War II theaters, earning eight battle stars. Mr. Feller was 
released from active duty with the rank of Chief Petty Officer.
 
3. Award. This unique award is intended to recognize a representative from 
three critical areas of Mr. Feller's life: his MLB career, his service in the 
Navy as a Chief Petty Officer and his enshrinement in the NBHOF. Accordingly, 
the award will be presented to one active MLB player, one Chief Petty Officer 
and one member of the NBHOF at the Navy Memorial in Washington, D.C. on 5 
November 2014. 

4. Eligibility and selection criteria. Nominees must be a Chief Petty Officer 
(E7), active or reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals and 
leaders in their communities. The following selection criteria for Navy 
nominees have been prescribed by the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation and 
are based upon the principles by which Mr. Feller lived his life. Nominees 
must:

   a. Be outstanding leaders in the performance of all professional 
responsibilities. Serve as an example to peers and subordinates as 
inspirational leaders. Only those with three years of consistent outstanding 
documented performance (include three years of evaluations in the nomination 
package) as a Chief Petty Officer should be considered. Nominees must display 
good character and humility in their achievements.

   b. Demonstrate community leadership through volunteer service, holding 
leadership positions within the organizations they serve. Display a genuine 
desire to be better today than they were yesterday, and better tomorrow than 
they are today. Provide an outstanding example of character and dedication to 
service for all to emulate. 

   c. Put the needs of others before the needs or wants of themselves.  This 
may be documented through evaluations and awards that show they led in the 
Navy or in their community to benefit the professional and personal 
development of others, above and beyond their primary responsibilities.

   d. Show unyielding support of the United States of America and fellow 
service men and women by having participated in patriotic events that 
celebrate all who serve our great nation. These events should be documented 
individually in the nomination to show the depth of participation in various 
events over the past three years.

   e. Above all else, prove to be beyond reproach in the manner in which they 
conduct themselves, treat others, and live the Navy core values of Honor, 
Courage, and Commitment.

5. Travel and lodging. Travel to and from and lodging at the award site will 
be the responsibility of the award winner's command.

6. Nominations. Fleet, Force Master Chiefs and Echelon 2 Command Master 
Chiefs may each nominate one Chief Petty Officer. Nominations must be on 
official letterhead and specify confidence in the nominee's professionalism 
as a representative of the Navy, and validity of the nominee's embodiment of 
the award criteria specified in paragraph 4.

7. Nomination packages. Nomination packages must contain four elements:

   a. Commanding Officer (CO) endorsement. Each nominee's CO must endorse the 
nomination and express a commitment to facilitate the nominee's attendance at 
the award ceremony, if selected.
  
   b. Narrative description. Provide an accounting of the nominee's 
embodiment of the award criteria specified above. This may include 
quantitative and qualitative data. Anecdotal evidence, such as newspaper 
articles, letters of commendation and appreciation, and other recognition may 
be included.

   c. Nominee biography and photo. If chosen as the award recipient, the 
nominee's biography and a high-resolution photo will be used in printed and 
online material used to publicize and document the award ceremony.  The 
biography should include hometown information as well as professional 
highlights and qualifications. The biography and photo should be similar to 
those commonly associated with Navy leader biographies and official portrait 
photos.
  
   d. Evaluations. Nomination packages should include the nominee's 
evaluations from the past three years.

8. Submission procedures. Nominations must be received by 6 June 2014. 
Nominations may be submitted electronically (preferred) to the POC or hard 
copy to the following address:

Navy Office of Community Outreach
ATTN: Bob Feller Act of Valor Award
5722 integrity drive (456-3)
Millington, TN 38054-5045

9. Selection process. The Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO) will 
consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board and provide a summary 
to the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation. The Bob Feller Act of Valor 
Foundation will make the final selection of the winner. The winner will be 
notified via their nominating Master Chief. NAVCO will notify those not 
selected.

10. Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0192
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
