UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 041522Z JAN 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N00/N09//

NAVADMIN 002/18

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/JAN//

SUBJ:  WAY FORWARD FOR 2018

RMKS/1.  Team, looking back, 2017 was a year of triumph and tragedy for our 
Navy.  We consistently forward-deployed more than
60,000 Sailors and 95 ships and submarines around the globe.
We executed our mission to protect America from attack, to advance our 
nation's interests, and to enhance our prosperity.

2.  Our Navy was also engaged throughout 2017, working as part of the joint 
force and with our allies and partners.  Carrier Strike Groups (CSGs) and 
Special Operations Forces provided decisive combat power in the fight against 
violent extremism, working with the joint force to help decimate the self-
proclaimed ISIS caliphate. Our six embarked Carrier Air Wings launched 
sorties around the clock to project power far from our shores.  The Navy also 
provided immediate and credible options to the President in meeting emergent 
security challenges, such as when our forward-deployed DDGs, USS ROSS and USS 
PORTER, launched Tomahawk strikes in response to the use of chemical weapons 
in Syria.  We also took combat losses - three Navy SEALs made the ultimate 
sacrifice.

3.  The world is becoming more competitive and in many ways more dangerous, 
and in 2017 we made some decisive strides to prepare our force to meet these 
rising challenges.  We operated three CSGs together, the first time that 
scale of maritime power has been shown since 2007.  We learned much from this 
operation and are working to integrate these lessons into the training for 
future deployers.  To strengthen America's naval power, we also commissioned 
eight new warships including the carrier USS GERALD R. FORD -- the first in 
its class.  We participated in hundreds of international exercises and port 
visits, demonstrating our ability to assure and inspire.  Our Navy surged to 
provide assistance and relief to thousands of our own citizens who were 
hammered by a series of five hurricanes.

4.  Even as we achieved these successes, we were reminded of the unforgiving 
nature of operating at sea.  Our Navy experienced five serious incidents in 
the Pacific.  Four of these incidents were preventable, caused by human error 
as we took our eye off of mastering the basics in seamanship and navigation.  
Twenty dedicated Sailors were lost.  Our thoughts and prayers remain with our 
fallen shipmates and their families - they will always be part of our Navy 
Team.

5.  Looking forward, our mission for 2018 is simple but by no means easy.  
Our adversaries are adaptive and increasingly assertive.  We must rise to the 
challenge.  We must learn from our mistakes, capture our successes, share 
those insights across the force, and improve upon our best every day.

6.  We'll do this through our leaders and teams, by detailed and flexible 
planning for normal, abnormal, and combat operations; rigorous practice for 
our missions; deliberate execution; and thoughtful reviews.  Assessment must 
be constant, and feedback must be an integral part of our process at all 
levels in the chain of command.  We expect the best from our Sailors, we need 
the most from our teams, and we must continually prepare ourselves for 
success.

7.  We will earn the privilege to be called U.S. Navy Sailors each and every 
day -- as individuals, in our teams, and as a fleet.
Our Navy will be characterized by deep respect for members of our Navy team, 
reassurance for our allies and partners, and regrets for those who oppose us.

8.  We will continue challenging ourselves at every level to be the best in 
the world at what we do.  By dedicating our hearts and minds to this calling, 
we will finish 2018 as the safest Navy for our Sailors, the most rewarding 
for our partners, and the most lethal Navy for our enemies.  Let's get to it.

9.  CNO sends.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
