UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 231347Z AUG 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 205/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/FY-19 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY LEADERSHIP EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
MASTERS PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the FY-19 
Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) Masters Program. The United 
States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking applications from motivated, 
academically and professionally qualified unrestricted line officers for the 
FY-19 LEAD Masters Program.  Selected officers will serve as both company 
officers and role models for our future naval officers.  The USNA company 
officer Masters Program is a unique opportunity for junior officers to 
participate in a 36-month graduate education and leadership experience.  The 
program combines a fully-funded masters degree in leadership education and 
development from The George Washington University (GWU) in Washington DC, 
with a required two-year follow-on commitment as a company officer at USNA in 
Annapolis, MD.  Officers attend classes at GWU and the Naval Academy.

2.  Additional information can be found on the USNA website at 
https://www.usna.edu/LEAD/Lead-Masters-Program/index.php.

3.  Community specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional eligibility 
requirements follow:
    a.  Surface Warfare
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG15 surface warfare qualified officers who have 
demonstrated superior performance at sea, have screened for department head 
(DH) afloat, and who have the career timing to support a 36-month shore duty 
assignment prior to their 7.5-year mark of commissioned service.  Select YG14 
surface warfare officers may be eligible depending on career timing and 
current shore duty assignment.  Nuclear trained officers are also eligible 
however, due to the specific nature of their career timing, it is understood 
that they will rotate earlier than 36 months for DH school timing.  All
YG14 and 15 officers should contact their respective Surface Warfare Officer 
Assignment Division (PERS-41) junior officer detailer to determine their 
timeline to DH School.
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations via the 
PERS-41 Talent Management Board.  PERS-41 junior officer detailers will 
assist the nominated officers with their online nomination package 
submission.  All Talent Management Board details will be announced via 
separate correspondence and support the timeline defined in this NAVADMIN.
        (3) A DH Retention Bonus contract must be submitted immediately upon 
selection for the LEAD Program.  DH school attendance and the successful 
completion of two DH tours as defined by PERS-41 is required following the 
completion of USNA assignment.
    b.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG14 and 15.
        (2) Submarine Office Distribution Division (PERS-42) will review all 
applications and recommend for selection top performing officers who can meet 
Submarine Officers Advanced Course (SOAC) gate at 7.5 years of commissioned 
service.  SOAC attendance and completion of a DH tour is required following 
completion of USNA assignment.
        (3) Eligible officers will compete for nominations via the
PERS-42 Talent Management Board.  Application materials required for the 
Talent Management Board are those listed in this NAVADMIN.
        (4) A Nuclear Officer Incentive Pay contract must be submitted 
immediately upon selection.  SOAC attendance and the successful completion of 
a DH tour as defined by PERS-42 is required following the completion of USNA 
assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12-14 (eligible for first shore tour).
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations via an 
Aviation Officer Assignment Division (PERS-43) Graduate Education Talent 
Management Board.  Primary criteria utilized for selection will be past 
performance, qualifications, career timing, and community needs.  Interested 
officers should contact their respective PERS-43 detailer for assistance with 
nomination package submission.
    d.  Special Warfare:
        (1) Eligible YG:  No restriction.
        (2) Prospective applicants must be screened by the department head 
board and education panel and have signed the Naval Special Warfare Officer 
Continuation Pay.  Applicants meeting these criteria will compete for Naval 
Special Warfare Division (PERS-415) nominations based on their performance, 
academic qualifications, and suitability for the program.
    e.  Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD):
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12-14.
        (2) Prospective applicants must have completed an EOD Company 
Commander tour, be administratively board screened for EOD DH, and signed the 
EOD Warfare Officer Retention Bonus.  Applicants meeting these criteria will 
compete for EOD Officer Assignment and Placement Division (PERS-416) 
nominations based on their performance, academic qualifications, and 
suitability for the program.

4.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to respective detailer.
A sample can be found at https://www.usna.edu/LEAD/Lead-Masters-
Program/LEAD-Program-Application.php.  The application package must
include:
        (1) Completed application page (PDF fillable version found at the 
website above).
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past 12 months).
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the reason for the 
application to the LEAD Program, how the program fits into your career goals, 
and your expectations with respect to the program.
        (4) Biography (following the format provided at the website above).
        (5) All higher education transcripts.
        (6) Copy of graduate record examination (GRE) scores taken within the 
last five years (or statement explaining why you are unable to take the GRE 
such as deployment or operational commitments).
        (7) Chain of command endorsement (required).
        (8) Additional professional and academic letters of recommendation 
(desired, not required).
        (9) Copy of performance summary report, officer summary record, and 
last five fitness reports.
    b.  Send additional original transcripts from all college and/or graduate 
education to:

        LEAD Masters Program Manager Mail
        112 Cooper Road Stop 7-C
        Annapolis, MD 21402-1305

This is in addition to the transcripts required for the application.
    c.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the cognizant 
detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All applications will be vetted 
through detailers to verify career timing impact.

5.  Timeline:
    a.  28 September 2018:  Application packages due to detailers.
    b.  2 November 2018:  Applications forwarded to USNA for 
selection/approval.
    c.  30 November 2018:  USNA selection board complete; results forwarded 
to PERS-443.
    d.  14 December 2018:  Expected latest notification date.
Selectees will have 14 calendar days from notification to formally accept or 
decline the program.
    e.  1 May 2019:  Report date for selected individuals.  Classes begin 
mid-May 2019.

6.  Points of contact:
    a.  LCDR Kevin Yost at (901) 874-3996/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
kevin.yost1(at)navy.mil
    b.  LCDR Alex Dietrich at (410) 293-6029/DSN 281 or via e-mail at 
adietric(at)usna.edu.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

