

RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 3541540-UUUU--RHSSSUU.
ZNR UUUUU
R 201500Z DEC 17
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 301/17

SUBJ/2018 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/11OCT17/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/21DEC12//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//
REF/D/DOC/CNO/JAN16//
NARR/ Ref A is ATSD(PA) memo, DoD FY18 Strategic Public Affairs
Outreach Activities.
Ref B is OPNAVINST 5726.8A, Outreach: Americas Navy.
Ref C is NAVADMIN 148/16 announcing the American Connections Media
Outreach Program.
Ref D is CNO Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority.//
POC/Rob Newell/Civ/CHINFO/LOC:  WASHINGTON, DC/TEL:  (703) 614-1879
/EMAIL:  ROBERT.D.NEWELL1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

1.  In support of references (a) thru (d), this NAVADMIN issues
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community
Outreach Program for 2018.

2.  Background.  As articulated in reference (a), more than 90
percent of Americans today have never served in the military.  As a
result, the cultural gap between the Armed Forces and the nation
they serve is growing.  Surveys done by the Department of Defenses
Joint Advertising and Marketing Research Service (JAMRS) indicate
that 60 percent of young people have already dismissed military
service as a future option by their 16th birthday; that only 50
percent of 17- to 35-year-olds can name all four military services;
and that while the large number of Navy recruits coming from Navy
families has traditionally served as a plentiful recruiting
reservoir, the reality is that reservoir is rapidly shrinking.  In
1995, 40 percent of all 16- to 24-year-olds had a parent who had
served in the military.  Today, that number is down to 16
percent.  Because we operate from the countrys coasts, this
disconnect is particularly challenging for the Navy.  Simply put,
the overwhelming majority of Americans dont see us.  They dont know
who we are, what we do or what opportunities the Navy presents to
young people.  The Navys annual Community Outreach Plan was created
to attack this challenge.

3.  Reference (a) defines community outreach as a critical DoD
priority and authorizes the services to continue their community
outreach programs in a sustainable, fiscally responsible manner in
2018.  IAW this guidance, the Navy will use its full menu of
community outreach programs in 2018 to connect Americans to their
Navy, with a specific focus on engaging those parts of the country
outside of fleet concentration areas.  Our ultimate goal:  Inspire
Americans to support or serve in their Navy.
4.  Per ref (a), the following outreach programs are authorized for
Calendar Year 2018 (CY18):
    a.  10 Fleet Weeks:  New Orleans, La.; Port Everglades, Fla.; New
York, N.Y.; Norfolk, Va.; Maryland (Baltimore, Md.); Portland, Ore.;
Los Angeles, Calif.; San Francisco, Calif.; Seattle, Wash.; and San
Diego, Calif.  Tasking and responsibilities for these events will be
provided SEPCOR by cognizant operational and regional commanders.
    b.  15 Navy Weeks:  San Antonio, Texas, Feb. 19-25; Tucson, Ariz.
March 12-18; Waco, Texas, April 2-8; Birmingham, Ala., April 9-15;
Tampa, Fla., May 7-13; Chattanooga, Tenn., June 11-17; Reno-Carson
City, Nev., June 17-23; Sacramento, Calif., July 16-22; Fargo, N.D.,
July 23-29; Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 6-12; Louisville, Ky., Aug. 20-26;
Cleveland, Ohio, Aug. 27-Sept. 2; Albuquerque, N.M., Sept. 10-16;
Springfield, Mass., Sept. 17-23; and Bossier-Shreveport, La., Oct.
29-Nov. 4.  Per reference (b), the Navy Week program is a community
outreach requirement, led by the Navy Office of Community Outreach
(NAVCO), and is a program uniquely positioned to increase
understanding of the Navy and its mission in markets across America
which do not have a Navy presence.  As such, the following commands
and activities will support the 2018 Navy Week campaign to the
maximum extent operational schedules will allow:
        (1) Depending on market size, each Navy Week will have
one or two flag officers or Senior Executive Service (SES) civilians
participating as senior Navy executive representatives.  In
coordination with PA and personal staffs, NAVCO will develop an
itinerary comprised of high-level outreach engagements with key
influencers from all sectors of the Navy Week market for
participating senior Navy executives.
        (2) Naval Special Warfare Command and Commander, Navy
Recruiting Command (CNRC) will make the Navy Parachute Team
Leap Frogs) available depending on venues and opportunities.
        (3) Navy Expeditionary Combat Command will make expeditionary
units (divers, EOD teams, Riverine, Seabees) and their equipment
available.
        (4) TYCOMs will support with Sailors assigned to ships,
squadrons and submarines with namesake city or state ties.
For cities where more than one namesake unit has a relationship,
NAVCO will coordinate with TYCOMs to determine the most feasible
assignment.
        (5) Commander, Naval Air Forces (AIRFOR) and Commander, Naval
Air Force Reserve (AIRFORRES) will support with aircraft and aircrew
participation, when possible, leveraging existing requirements of
the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps Naval Aviation Sponsorship
Program.
        (6) Commander, Navy Reserve Force will support with Navy
Operational Support Center (NOSC) Sailors and other resources as
coordinated with NAVCO Navy Week planning leads.
        (7) Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED) will support with
Navy medical professionals, equipment and displays as appropriate.
        (8) Office of Naval Research will participate with personnel
and assets participating in Science, Technology, Engineering and
Mathematics (STEM) events.
        (9) U.S. Navy Band and Fleet Band Activities will support
with regional bands and premiere bands when appropriate.
        (10) Naval Education and Training Command (NETC) and Naval
Service Training Command (NSTC) will support with participation from
NROTC units.
        (11) USS CONSTITUTION will support with Sailors, equipment
and displays.
        (12) U.S. Fleet Forces Command (FFC) and the Office of the
Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) N45 will support with environmental
personnel and displays.
        (13) CNRC will support with Navy Recruiting District (NRD)
and Navy Recruiting Station Sailors and recruiting properties, simulators
and other equipment as appropriate.
        (14) Navy commands and units within a reasonable distance of
Navy Week cities will support with hometown Sailors, other personnel and
equipment, as coordinated with Navy Week planning teams.
        (15) Blue Angels performances will provide the foundational
event for Navy Weeks in Tucson, Ariz.; Waco, Texas; Birmingham, Ala.;
Tampa, Fla.; Fargo, N.D.; and Cleveland, Ohio.
        (16) Naval History and Heritage Command will support with
speakers and displays.
        (17) Navy Ceremonial Guard will support with its drill team.
        (18) Department of the Navy Office of Small Business Programs
(OSBP) will provide detailed statistics for each market and will
provide representatives to attend and speak at multiple small business
events in conjunction with Navy Weeks as a part of our efforts to
provide the highest quality of support to small business owners and
entrepreneurs.
        (19) Additional units or activities with outreach capability
not listed above are encouraged and welcome to participate in the Navy
Week program and should contact NAVCO for further guidance.
    c.  The American Connections Media Outreach Program, announced in
reference (c), will be a prominent component of the Navy 2018
community outreach strategy.  The program modernized and replaced
the legacy Fleet Hometown News (FHTN) program.  Managed by NAVCO, it
was established to share the Navy story with media across the
country serving markets which generally do not receive Navy news and
information.  It leverages Sailors local connections to communities
across America -- hometown, location of high school or college
attended, family members hometown, etc. -- as well as the
relationships that exist between Navy units and their namesake
cities and states, to ensure Americans throughout the country better
understand their Navy, its mission and its contribution to national
security.  An additional but no less significant benefit of the
program is the positive impact on the morale of participating
Sailors and namesake units.  In 2018, the program will include the
following elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys small production
teams to commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos
of assigned Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those
Sailors have local connections.  All content is also posted to
NAVCOs media outreach blog at navyoutreach.blogspot.com, allowing
Sailors to share their stories via their social media
networks.  NAVCO will conduct 20 Media Production Visits in 2018 in
support of key Navy communication priorities and
programs.  Priorities (proposed locations) include:
            (a) Asia-Pacific Rebalance (Guam, Pearl Harbor, Sasebo,
Yokosuka)
            (b) Aviation Modernization, F-35/EA-18G/E-2D programs
(Eglin, Everett, Fallon, Lemoore, Norfolk, Whidbey)
            (c) Ballistic Missile Defense (Rota)
            (d) Cyber Warfare (Corry Station, Fort Meade)
            (e) Investment in People/Naval Aviation Training
            (Pensacola)
            (f) Ohio Replacement and Nuclear Deterrence, SSBN/E-6B
programs (Alaska, Bangor)
            (g) Surface Modernization, LCS/DDG/LPD/LHA programs
            (Bath, Norfolk, San Diego)
            (h) Undersea Warfare, SSN/P-8/MH-60R programs (Groton,
            Jacksonville, Mayport)
        (2) Media advisory service.  Preserving a popular capability
from the FHTN program, NAVCO notifies local media when Sailors are
promoted, receive an award, earn a warfare qualification, complete a
deployment or achieve other recognition.  Sailors may submit
material for this service by e-mailing navyoutreach@navy.mil.
        (3) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day,
commands throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos
featuring the professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments of
Navy commands.  NAVCO's content sharing service provides these stories
and photos to media where Sailors have local connections and to
media with ties to namesake units. To maximize the utility of this
program, commands are encouraged to include a local connection
(hometown, high school, etc.) for every Sailor identified in a photo
or story.
        (4) Radio shout-out service.  A toll-free telephone service
(1 -855-OUR-NAVY or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to record a 15
-second greeting, which is shared with local radio stations where
Sailors have local connections.  Greetings can be submitted in
conjunction with a holiday or observance, such as Thanksgiving,
Veterans Day, etc.  Greetings can also be sent from Sailors, or
namesake units, to offer support to their home teams participating
in major sporting events.
    d. Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval Aviation outreach is
particularly effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring a
primary warfighting platform to inland markets.  The following Naval
Aviation outreach activities are authorized in 2018:
       (1) 36 full Blue Angels performances.
       (2) 30 Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) performances.
       (3) Nine Navy-hosted air shows/open houses:  NAS JRB Fort
Worth, Texas; NAS Key West, Fla.; NAS Kingsville, Texas; NAS Jacksonville,
Fla.; NAS Pensacola, Fla.; NAS Oceana, Va.; Panama City, Fla.;
Gulfport, Miss.; and Patuxent River, Md.  These events are
authorized to have aerial demonstrations by aviation assets organic
to the installation.
       (4) 46 TACAIRDEMO performances at Chief of Information
       (CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not
performing.
       (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows
       and other events.
       (6) 40 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by
(CHINFO), equally divided between East and West Coast aviation assets, at
CHINFO-authorized events.  Flyover support will only be provided to
those events that have the ability to showcase Naval Aviation to a
national or international audience.  Flyovers at high school events
are not permitted. Requests are submitted to NAVCO using DD Form
2535, reviewed by the Aviation Outreach Working Group (AOWG)
consisting of representatives from CNAL, CNAP, NAVCO and CHINFO,
before being forwarded up the Chief of Information for final
approval.
       (7) Aviation outreach support which falls into the following
categories is not subject to limits specified in reference (a):
           a.  Military services retain operational authority over
support for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not
considered community outreach events.
           b.  Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended
primarily for an internal audience are not considered outreach events
and may be conducted with TYCOM approval.  This includes U.S. Naval
Academy events.
           c.  Aviation outreach support, to include flyovers, at
CHINFO-authorized events in the local area are permitted when it is
deemed by the local or regional commander to be in the interest of
maintaining good relations with key community partners and
organizations.
           e.  Continental United States port visits.  From an
outreach perspective, there is no more effective means to showcase the Navy's
capabilities and its talented Sailors than allowing Americans to
visit a ship or submarine.  As such, a maximum of 20 port visits for
outreach have been approved during 2018.  The following CONUS port
visits are currently scheduled:
               (1) East Coast (10):  Charleston, S.C. (2); Mobile,
Ala.; Eastport, Maine; Rockland, Maine; Boston, Mass. (2); Bristol, R.I.;
New York, N.Y.; and New London, Conn.
               (2) West Coast (7):  Seattle, Wash.; San Francisco,
Calif.; Los Angeles, Calif. ; Long Beach, Calif.; Malibu, Calif.; Hilo,
Hawaii; Juneau, Alaska.
               (3) Other port visits conducted primarily for training
or operational purposes are not subject to limits specified in
reference (b).
               (4) Per reference (c), the following elements should
be incorporated into every port visit SOE:
                   a.  Media day (pierside press availability and a
shipboard tour).
                   b.  Very important person (VIP) reception.
                   c.  VIP tours for local civic and community
leaders.
                   d.  The maximum amount of public visitation
possible to the extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
                   e.  Two community relations projects, such as
beach clean-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with
appropriate media coverage.
                   f.  Civic and Executive Outreach.  Reference (b)
approves dedicated outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic
and executive outreach.
    e.  25 Executive Outreach Visits.  NAVCO administers the Navy's
Executive Engagement Visit (EEV) program for flag officers and SES
civilians for the purpose of conducting multi-day outreach
engagements in U.S. cities. NAVCO will coordinate itineraries for
participating Navy leaders to include engagements with corporate
executives, government officials, education leaders, civic groups,
veterans organizations and media.
        (1) Proposed 2018 EEV cities are: Billings, Mont.; Mobile,
        Ala.;
Salt Lake City, Utah; Indianapolis, Ind.; Little Rock, Ark.;
Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn.; Austin, Texas; Spokane, Wash.; Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Green Bay, Wis.; Portland, Maine; Oklahoma City, Okla.; Fort Worth,
Texas; Kansas City, Kan.; Dover, Del.; Cincinnati, Ohio; Wichita,
Kan.; Charleston, S.C.; Burlington, Vt.; Colorado Springs, Colo.;
Raleigh, N.C.; Lubbock, Texas; Tulsa, Okla.; Nashville, Tenn.; and
Chicago, Ill.
            b.  Other cities to which a flag officer or SES civilian
has a significant tie may be considered in lieu of cities mentioned
previously.
            c.  Per reference (b), travel by flag officers, SES
civilians and members of the command triad outside the local area to
participate in community outreach and other representational events that
demonstrably help achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and will
be considered essential official business in the governments
interest.
            d.  Support is also authorized for the Torrance, Calif.
Armed Forces Week and for the SECDEF Joint Civilian Orientation
Conference.
    f.  Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most
effective means to connect Americans with their Navy is through
strong and enduring namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the
requirements specified for the Navy Week program referenced above,
ref (a) approves visits by crewmembers of ships and submarines with
namesake ties to their namesake city or state.
h. Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  Ref (b)
approves the following:
        1.  The fall, spring and summer tours for the Navy's premier
        bands.
        2.  Use of operational funding for regional band outreach
        travel and
performances.
        3.  Participation in the U.S. Consulate Tijuana, Mexico
        Independence
Day Celebration.
        4. Participation in the International and Midwest Band and
        Orchestra
Clinic.
        5. One OCONUS International Tattoo using a CONUS-based asset
(with CCMD concurrence).
        6.  U.S. Navy Band public outreach concerts, including those
outside the National Capital Region, and large public concerts ICW Navy
Birthday celebrations.
        7.  U.S. Navy Band and Fleet Band Activities will oversee and
collect all new outreach measurement guidelines as detailed in reference
(a).
        8.  Also approved are performances by the Navy Ceremonial
Guard in parades outside of the National Capital Region and other
miscellaneous outreach at events such as the Super Bowl, Warrior
Games, New York City Veterans Day Parade, Navy Weeks and similar
events.
    g.  Navy Birthday and Historical Observances.  Funding has been
approved under reference (a) for commands and activities to
commemorate the Navy Birthday, Battle of Midway, events
commemorating the 75th anniversary of major World War II events, the
centennial anniversary of World War I, the 50th anniversary of the
Vietnam War, and other historical observances. Commands are
encouraged to align activities and events with the following
significant anniversary dates in 2018:
        (1) May 20 - Battle of the Atlantic (WWII@75): On May 20,
1943, ADM Ernest King establishes the Tenth Fleet as the Navys central
organization to prosecute the U-boat war. (Atlantic Theater)
        (2) June 30 - Operation Cartwheel (WWII@75): From June 30 to
July 2, 1943, Operation Cartwheel helped neutralize Japanese forces
in New Guinea and the Solomon Islands. (Pacific Theater)
        (3) June 30 - Naval Combat Demolition Units/Special Service
Unit 1 (WWII@75): On June 30, 1943, the Naval Combat Demolition Unit
School forms the nucleus of the Atlantic and Pacific Underwater Demolition
Team (UDT) community. (Pacific Theater)
        (4) July 9-10 - Operation Husky (WWII@75): On July 9-10, 1943
the Allies invade Sicily in Operation Husky, which utilized more
troops than the D-Day invasion of Normandy. (Atlantic Theater)
        (5) September 9 - Salerno Landing (WWII@75): During the
landings at Salerno, Italy on Sept. 9, 1943, Navy gunfire support proved
critical. (Atlantic Theater)
        (6) October 31 - Combat operations in North Vietnam halted
(Vietnam @50): On Oct. 31, 1968, President Lyndon Johnson halts all
combat operations against North Vietnam in a last desperate hope to
energize cease-fire negotiations in Paris.
        (7) November - Rabaul (WWII@75): The power of carrier
aviation is demonstrated during airstrikes on Rabaul in November 1943.
(Pacific Theater)
        (8) November 11 - Armistice Day (WWI@100): On Nov. 11, 1918,
the First World War ends with the signing of an armistice.
        (9) November 20 - Battle of Tarawa (WWII@75): Part of
Operation Galvanic, the invasion of the Gilbert Islands, the Battle of Tarawa
was fought from Nov. 20-23, 1943, and helped crack the Japanese line
in the Central Pacific. (Pacific Theater)
        (10) November 29 - Bureau of Ships Conveyor Belt (WWII@75):
On Nov. 29, 1943, USS HORNET (CV 12) became the sixth Essex-class
aircraft carrier to be commissioned in 1943. In all, 537 combatant vessels
weighing 1.46 million tons were built in 1943 - four times what was
built in 1942. (Atlantic Theater)
        (11) More detailed information and products on these
anniversaries can be found at: https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic
/commemorations-toolkits.html
        (12) Other resources to help with outreach initiatives
        include:
             a.  Listing of all NHHC Museums - https:/
www.history.navy.mil/visit-our-museums.html
             b.  Infographics on history and heritage topics - https:
/www.history.navy.mil/news-and-events/multimedia-gallery
/infographics.html
             c.  Ship histories - https://www.history.navy.mil
/research/histories/ship-histories.html
             d.  Heritage resources - https://www.history.navy.mil
/browse-by-topic/heritage.html
             e.  Navy communities (CPO, Navy Medicine, Naval
Aviation, Seabees, Chaplain Corps) - https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-
topic
/communities.html
             f.  Diversity - https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by
-topic/diversity.html
             g.  Notable people - https://www.history.navy.mil/browse
-by-topic/people.html
        (13) For more information, please e-mail nhhcpublicaffairs
@navy.mil or call (202) 433-7880.
     h.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  For activities not
included in reference (a), use of local resources to support outreach
activities in the local area is authorized and encouraged.  Local
area is defined in Joint Travel Regulation, Chapter 2, Part L,
Section 2800 12.

5.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require
approval by the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense
for Public Affairs.  Requests for an exception to policy must be
forwarded through CHINFO.  For additional questions pertaining to
this NAVADMIN and the execution of the Navy's 2018 Community
Outreach Plan, please contact Mr. Rob Newell at (703) 614-1879.

6.  Released by CAPT G. L. Hicks, Chief of Information.//
BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

