UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 091601Z DEC 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 280/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO/WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/CHART THE COURSE TRAINING//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/081342ZSEP15//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 213/15, FY-16 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for Chart the Course (CTC) training 
and outlines the requirements for completion and documentation.  CTC 
highlights many issues faced by Sailors where both simple and complex 
decisions may need to be made and the subsequent impact and potential 
consequences of those decisions. The CTC task force will facilitate delivery 
of this training to all active and reserve Navy personnel.

2.  Background.  CTC continues our efforts to combat destructive behaviors 
across the fleet while reinforcing and building upon our Navy Core Values and 
Navy Ethos.  CTC blends scenario-based videos with facilitator-led 
discussions addressing the idea that all hands must take ownership of 
enhancing a positive and professional climate within their commands and work 
environments (e.g., work centers, divisions, departments, watch teams, 
detachments, etc.).  CTC will thus serve as a navigation plan to help all 
Sailors recognize admirable decision-making and professional behavior when 
faced with challenging circumstances and/or situations.  Since this training 
bridges several topic areas, commands may also use completion of CTC to 
satisfy hazing policy and prevention; operational risk management; and 
alcohol, drug, and tobacco awareness command-assigned readiness-enhancement 
general military training as directed in reference (a).

3.  Command Facilitator Training.  Training will be delivered to all active 
and reserve personnel by certified command facilitators (CFs) selected by 
their individual commands.  Designated CFs personnel will be trained on CTC 
facilitation techniques by Master Mobile Training Teams (MMTT) from the CTC 
Task Force and will then deliver the interactive video and facilitated face-
to-face sessions in small groups to their peers within the command.
    a.  Due to similarities in the training methods, CFs certified to 
instruct Bystander Intervention to the Fleet in FY-15 remain certified to 
instruct CTC (even if they have subsequently transferred commands).  The CTC 
Task Force will provide an online facilitator refresher/CTC orientation for 
former Bystander Intervention to the Fleet facilitators prior to initial 
roll-out of CTC training materials in January 2016.
    b.  Completion of CFs certification training will be documented by the 
CTC Task Force in the Fleet Training Management Planning System (FLTMPS).  
Qualified CFs will receive credit for the course NETC-CTC-CF-CERT in their 
individual training records in FLTMPS within 1-2 weeks of training 
completion.  Grandfathered Bystander Intervention to the Fleet CFs will 
receive this credit automatically.

4.  CTC Command-Level Delivery.  CTC will be delivered as a face-to-face 
discussion by MMTT-certified CFs.
    a.  Peer-to-peer training is a critical element of CTC designed to 
encourage open, frank dialogue among those of similar age and experience 
level.  Commanding officers should define the peer groups within their 
command in such a way to maximize the consistency of age, experience, and 
background among group members and select facilitators from each group to 
deliver this peer-level training. As a guideline, the recommended peer 
groupings are junior-level (E5 and below); mid-level (E6-E8/W2-W4/O1-O4); and 
senior-Level (E9/W5/O5 and above).  Commanding officers (COs) may adjust or 
combine peer groups based on individual command demographics.
    b.  Every command CTC session will be facilitated by two CFs personnel 
who fall within the same peer group as the training audience.  Commands may 
designate multiple CFs per peer group as command size warrants.  The success 
of CTC training depends on the selection of exemplary and dynamic CFs who 
have the ability to actively engage Sailors while delivering the CTC content.
Co-facilitation of CTC sessions is not waiverable.
    c.  Commands with small numbers of Navy personnel, or those with 
deployed/remote personnel, may combine CTC training with other commands so 
long as the peer-to-peer and co-facilitation requirements are met.
    d.  CTC training materials (videos, facilitator guide and supporting 
material) will be mailed on DVD to all Navy commands prior to January 2016.  
CFs may also access training materials online following conclusion of their 
certification at a dedicated CTC site on www.milsuite.mil.  Download 
procedures will be provided via separate correspondence to all CFs.

5.  Documentation.  Completion of CTC training will be documented using 
FLTMPS.  Use the report group Chart the Course with course identification 
number NETC-CTC and course title Chart the Course Peer Level Training to 
record training via the FLTMPS learning event completion form.

6.  Training Completion.  CTC training will be completed no later than 30 
September 2016.

7.  Resources.  Commands may access Navy CTC training information via the NPC 
21st Century Sailor webpage http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_century_sailor/pages/default.aspx.  The CTC webpage will 
contain up to date policy information, CFs training registration 
instructions, and frequently asked questions.

8.  Action Required:
    a.  All commands shall:
        (1) Ensure at least two CFs are identified for each command peer 
group and complete CFs certification training as detailed in paragraph 3 of 
this NAVADMIN.  Registration for CFs certification training can be completed 
online at https://esams.cnic.navy.mil/esams_gen_2/loginesams.aspx.
        (2) Deliver CTC training in CFs-led peer training via small group 
sessions using training products provided by the CTC Task Force no later than 
30 September 2016.
        (3) Document CTC completion per paragraph 5 of this NAVADMIN for all 
command members.
    b.  Joint commands shall ensure the Navy Element Commander executes CTC 
training for all assigned Navy personnel in accordance with this NAVADMIN.

9.  General business rules that shall be adhered to in executing the required 
CTC training:
    a.  Only MMTT personnel assigned to the CTC Task Force will conduct CFs 
certification training.  Individual commands are not authorized to certify 
their own CFs.
    b.  CTC training is required only for uniformed Navy personnel. Civilians 
or other service personnel assigned at Navy commands are not required to 
participate in CTC training but may attend at the COs discretion.
    c.  CTC training material will not be modified and may only be delivered 
by a certified CFs.

10.  Command Relationships.  The CTC Task Force is the supported commander 
for this Chief of Naval Operations-directed requirement. All other Navy 
commands are designated as supporting commands.

11.  CTC Task Force points of contact are CAPT Patricia Enright, CTC Task 
Force Chief of Staff, at (757) 492-5623/DSN 492 or via e-mail at 
patricia.enright(at)navy.mil or CDR Heath Marcus, CTC Task Force Deputy Chief 
of Staff, at (757) 492-5640/DSN 492 or via e-mail at 
heath.marcus(at)navy.mil.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
