UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 022145Z OCT 14 PSN 928684K37
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 229/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/OCT//

SUBJ/2014 ARMY-NAVY GAME SPIRIT SPOTS//

POC/MR. DAMON MORITZ/CHINFO OI-2/TEL: (703) 614-9154/
E-MAIL:  NAVYMEDIA(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This year's Army/Navy game is scheduled for Saturday, 13 December 
2014 at M&T Bank Stadium (Baltimore).  CBS Sports will televise the game and 
will once again accept "Go Navy, Beat Army"
video spots from the Navy and Marine Corps team to be considered for 
broadcast during the game.  Please note that CBS generally only airs one 
spirit spot from each service and that is selected at their discretion.  
Advanced notice of use by CBS is not possible.  Other videos may be played on 
stadium jumbotron displays at the game organizer's discretion.
    a.  The Navy Office of Information and Defense Media Activity
    will
push selected spots to a variety of media outlets, flagship web and broadcast 
platforms and social media sites prior to the game to help generate esprit de 
corps and as a way of highlighting our naval forces.
        (1) Requirements and best practices:
            (a) All spots must be submitted from a Navy or Marine Corps 
activity and release is embargoed until 8 December 2014.
            (b) Include the submitting command's name and location and 
include a "Go Navy, Beat Army" theme.
            (c) Commands are also encouraged to include the Chief of Naval 
Operations (CNO's) tenets:  warfighting first, operate forward, and be ready.  
Avoid use of Navy or military jargon or acronyms.
            (d) Do not submit group/command/formation shout outs in which the 
group is shouting a message.
            (e) Experience has shown that submissions most likely to be 
successful in broadcast or social media sites are those with clean clear 
audio and exhibit enthusiasm, humor, creativity, and motivation.
            (f) Inclusion of Naval Academy graduates, unique locations, 
forward deployed locations and underway scenes are highly encouraged.
            (g) Spots cannot include copyrighted or sensitive material or 
music, make any official or implied endorsements or present commands or the 
Navy in a negative light.
            (h) Spots should be broadcast quality in one of the following 
file or tape formats:
                1.  Files should be at least 8 mb/s but no more than
100 mb/s and in mxf, mpeg, wmv, mp4, mov or avi file formats.  M4v, flv and 
swf files are not accepted.
                2.  Tapes/media are accepted, but efforts should focus on 
electronic transmission.  Accepted tape/media formats are:
cd/dvd, xdcam or hdv.  First-generation tapes only.
                3.  All submissions must be in high definition
(1920x1080 or 1280x720).
            (i) If intended for CBS, spots must be no more than 30 seconds in 
length, however spots intended for social media or other web-only outlets 
shall not be longer than two minutes.
            (j) Use high quality Navy branding graphics available for use at:  
http://extensis.cnrc.navy.mil/graphics.htm and enter the branding products 
page.
            (k) Submit only ready-to-air spots.  Neither CBS nor the Navy 
Office of Information will edit submissions.
            (l) Frame shots according to rules of good composition (avoid 
talking heads with no bodies) and avoid distracting backgrounds and 
inadvertent commercial product placement.
            (m) Good audio quality and sharp focus are paramount.
Poor audio quality is a primary reason for rejection.  Check for over 
modulated audio, weak audio, unclear voices or background noise prior to 
submitting.

2.  Support from Navy Public Affairs Support Elements (NPASE), Defense Media 
Activity detachments or broadcast detachments are permissible on a not-to-
interfere with operational requirements basis.

3.  Commands are to send original, broadcast quality footage by electronic 
means, express shipment or fastest method available to the Navy Office of 
Information (OI-2).  Submissions must be received before 30 November 2014.  
Late submissions are not accepted.  Please consider shipping times for 
overseas and deployed units.  Send to:
U.S. Navy Office of Information, Attn:  Damon Moritz, 1200 Navy Pentagon, RM 
4B514, Washington, DC, 20350-1200.  Uploads via the Navy Imagery Server or 
Fast File Transfer (FFT) are also accepted.
Contact navymedia(at)navy.mil with subject line "army-navy transmission 
request" for file transfer information.

4.  Request widest possible dissemination of this message.  This is an 
excellent means of highlighting Navy teamwork and the spirit of our Sailors 
and Marines forward deployed around the world. Go Navy, beat Army.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#8318
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
