UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 161300Z MAR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-17 OLMSTED SCHOLAR PROGRAM//

NAVADMIN 064/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/8JAN15//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.24D, OFFICER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
FY-17 Olmsted Scholar Program.  Where information differs between this 
NAVADMIN and reference (a), this NAVADMIN takes precedence.

2.  The Olmsted Scholar Program provides two years of graduate study using a 
foreign language while providing overseas cultural and travel opportunities 
and often leads to a graduate degree at a foreign university.  Applicants 
should be available to commence language training in Summer/Fall 2016, begin 
study at a foreign university in 2017, and complete study in 2019.  A Navy 
selection board will convene in October 2015 to select up to 12 nominees from 
which the Olmsted Foundation Board of Directors will consider and select Navy 
scholars in March 2016.

3.  This unique scholarship opportunity supports the Secretary of Defense 
emphasis on developing language skills and regional cultural knowledge across 
the force.  Global affairs require language proficiency/regional expertise 
within the Navy.  Although this scholarship program is open to all regions of 
the world, priority will be given to those whose language choice would fill a 
current or projected critical need of the Navy.

4.  To utilize these scholarship opportunities, the Navy is looking for young 
leaders who display all the qualities of dedicated career officers who aspire 
to command.  In particular, fitness reports must demonstrate strong 
leadership qualities, solid overall performance, and strong promotion 
potential.  Additionally, while a minimum grade point average is not 
specified, all applicants must have demonstrated scholastic ability in their 
undergraduate transcript. Factors such as academic major, participation in 
varsity sports, steady scholastic improvement, etc., are taken into 
consideration when reviewing transcripts.  Applicants must also have a strong 
desire to learn a foreign language, live, study, and travel abroad. Finalists 
may be interviewed by the Olmsted Foundation.

5.  Active-duty list regular or full-time support officers with the 
designators 111X, 112X, 113X, 114X, 131X, 132X, 181X, 182X, 183X, and 310X 
with the following qualifications may apply for the program.
    a.  At least 3 years of commissioned service but not more than 11 years 
of total active federal service as of 1 April 2016.
    b.  Superior scholastic ability as demonstrated in an official 
undergraduate transcript indicating class rank, if available.
    c.  Foreign language aptitude as demonstrated on the Defense Language 
Aptitude Battery (DLAB), although language background or proficiency is not 
required.
    d.  Exceptional military professional performance.

6.  Applications should be prepared per enclosure (3) of reference (a).  
Detailed information on application requirements and a sample application 
letter are located on the Navy College website at 
http://www.navycollege.navy.mil/olmsted.aspx.  Applications should be 
addressed to:
       Naval Education and Training Professional Development and
       Technology Center
       Voluntary Education, Code N2A2 Olmsted
       6490 Saufley Field Road
       Pensacola, FL 32509-5204

7.  To support submission of DLAB scores, commands may obtain DLAB testing 
information from Commanding Officer, Center for Information Dominance (CLREC-
NFLTO Code N01L) by calling (850) 452-6529/DSN 459, or via e-mail at 
languagetesting(at)navy.mil.  Information on the Graduate Record Examination 
(GRE) may be obtained from the local Navy College Office or at 
http://www.gre.org.

8.  This is a three-year program for which career timing is an important 
consideration.  All applicants must contact their detailer for counseling on 
the career impact of participation in the Olmsted Scholar Program.  In order 
to be considered by the Navy selection board, a written/signed statement from 
the detailer, per enclosure (3) of reference (a), must be included in the 
nomination package.

9.  Application packages, with command endorsement and detailer statement, 
must reach Naval Education and Training Professional Development and Training 
Center (NETPDTC) voluntary education, Code N2A2-Olmsted, no later than (NLT) 
28 August 2015.  Required DLAB/GRE scores and official college transcripts 
may be submitted by separate correspondence to reach NETPDTC Code N2A2-
Olmsted NLT 11 September 2015.

10.  This prestigious program is key to preparing young officers for future 
leadership roles as the Navy faces the ever-increasing challenges and 
complexities of today*s international environment. Olmsted Scholars achieve 
fluency in a foreign language, gain a deep appreciation for foreign cultures, 
acquire regional expertise by studying and traveling overseas, and may earn a 
Liberal Arts Master’s Degree.  All eligible and interested officers are urged 
to consider this important program and visit the Olmsted Foundation website 
at http://www.olmstedfoundation.org for additional details, including 
important information regarding the country/city/university preference list.

11.  Point of contact is Ms. Billie Colonna, NETPDTC, at (850) 473-6061/DSN 
753, or via e-mail at billie.colonna(at)navy.mil. Additional information on 
the program is located on the Navy College website at 
http://www.navycollege.navy.mil/olmsted.aspx.

12.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
