

RAAUZYUW RUCCBWF0001 1721813-UUUU--RHMCNAD.
ZNR UUUUU

R 021813Z Jul 13

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 171/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/JUN//

 SUBJ/Academic Year (AY) 14-15 POLITICO-MILITARY MASTERS AND ARTHUR S. MOREAU POST-MASTERS 
PROGRAM CALL FOR APPLICATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/22JUN2010//
REF/B/DOC/CNO/01OCT1991//
NARR/REF (A) IS OPNAVINST 1500.72G, NAVY POLITICO-MILITARY FELLOWSHIPS, GRADUATE 
EDUCATION PROGRAMS, AND COMMUNITY SPONSORSHIP.  REF (B) IS OPNAVINST 1520.23B, 
GRADUATE EDUCATION.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the AY 2014-2015 Pol-Mil Masters (PMM) program 
and Arthur S. Moreau (ASM) post- Masters program for study in International Relations or National 
Security Affairs.  Program applications are due to Navy Personnel Command no later than August 23, 
2013.  The selection board is scheduled to convene October 9, 2013.  Selection board results will be 
advertised via a separate NAVADMIN.

2.  Pol-Mil Masters.  The PMM program was developed to educate naval officers In Pol-Mil affairs and 
strategic planning through graduate education at elite civilian institutions (CIVINS).  Assignments to the 
PMM program vary in length according to degree and institution, but range from one to two years.  The 
one-year student should expect to serve an immediate follow-on tour in a major staff N5 or J5 billet.  
Candidates who are considering pursuit of a doctoral degree
(PhD) should express preference for a two-year program.
    a.  Eligibility.  All O3-O5 Unrestricted Line Officers and officers with the following designators: 171x, 
172x, 181x, and 183x who have not already participated in a Department of Defense funded graduate 
education program are eligible.  Officers who earned a degree through the Tuition Assistance Program 
or a Service War College retain their eligibility for PMM.
    b.  Program Specifics.  Up to seven officers will be selected for a one-year Masters degree and one 
officer will be selected for a two-year Masters degree.  Coursework will start in the summer session or 
fall semester of 2014.  The program is appropriate for junior officers who are completing their Division 
Officer tours, or who will go to Department Head tours after the PMM.  Officers who complete this 
program will be eligible to receive a 2000P subspecialty code as well as the 240 Additional Qualification 
Designation (AQD) code.
Per Ref (B), selected officers will carry a full academic load year-round.  Candidates interested in 
applying for a future PhD program should state so in their applications and strongly consider applying 
for the two-year program to enhance their academic foundation.  Officers should verify the work 
experience requirements of the civilian institutions of interest prior to completing school applications.  
The civilian institutions available for the program are among the best in the country, and include:
       (1) Georgetown University.  18-month accelerated Master of Arts
(MA) in the Security Studies program at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service.  Enrolling in this 
program will require selection to the two-year Pol-Mil Masters program.
       (2) Harvard University.  One-year mid-career Masters in Public Administration (MC/MPA) or a two-
year Masters in Public Policy (MPP) at the John F. Kennedy School of Government.
       (3) Johns Hopkins University.  One-year Masters of International Public Policy (MIPP), or a two-year 
MA in International Relations at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS).
       (4) New York University.  One-year MA in International Relations.
       (5) Stanford University.  18-month MA in International Policy Studies at the School of Humanities 
and Sciences International Comparative Area Studies Division.  Enrolling in this program will require 
selection for the two-year Pol-Mil Masters program.
       (6) Tufts University.  One-year or two-year MA in Law and Diplomacy (MALD) at the Fletcher School.
       (7) University of Chicago.  One-year MA in International Relations.
       (8) University of California, San Diego.  One-year MA in Advanced Studies in International Affairs at 
the School of International Relations and Pacific Studies.
    c.  Selection board results.  Selectees to the program should submit applications to their preferred 
school(s) from the list above.
Selection by the board does not imply acceptance to any of the above Institutions. PMM selectees must 
compete in the schools' regular application processes for their desired programs of study.  To maximize 
probability of acceptance, applicants are expected to apply to at least three of the above schools. 
Applicants are also encouraged to improve their competitiveness by including GRE and or GMAT scores 
in their application package.

3.  Arthur S. Moreau program.  The ASM program for post-Masters study in International Relations and 
Strategy develops officers who are able to formulate and conduct National Security policy, strategic 
planning, and decision-making processes at the highest levels of government.  The time allotment of the 
program enables the selected officer to complete "all but dissertation" toward a PhD.  ASM does not 
require completion of a PhD, but the selection board will favor officers whose stated goal is to complete 
the dissertation portion of the PhD after leaving the program.  
    a.  Eligibility.  All O4-O5 Unrestricted Line Officers who have completed a graduate degree in a Pol-Mil 
area of study are eligible.
Officers with demonstrated superior performance and potential for future utilization in the Pol-Mil 
arena will be selected to pursue post-Masters education.
        (1) Candidates should state whether they intend to complete all PhD requirements (including 
dissertation after leaving the program) if selected for ASM.  OPNAV N51 will track dissertation progress 
of ASM graduates through completion and ensure reutilization in a higher echelon national security 
position.
        (2) ASM institutions typically favor candidates who have completed a thesis as part of their Masters 
degree.  ASM candidates who have completed a thesis should include the thesis (or link to the thesis 
location) as part of their applications to the selection board.
        (3) Officers who have participated in a Department of Defense funded graduate education program 
retain their eligibility.
    b.  Program Specifics.  Selection is limited to one officer quota.
The selectee will apply for admission to one or more of the civilian institutions listed in section 2.b. that 
allow students to meet the goals of the ASM program.  Candidates should provide some detail on how 
they will meet the goals of this program when applying.  Per Ref (A), officers who complete this program 
will receive the 2000N subspecialty code, as well as the 240 AQD, and should expect to be assigned to 
high priority Navy, Joint, or Interagency billets.  Per Ref (B), selected officers shall carry a full academic 
load on a year-round basis.  

4.  Naval Strategy Community.  Officers who complete either the PMM or ASM will earn the 2000 
subspecialty code and serve at least one tour in a validated subspecialty billet in either Pol-Mil Affairs or 
strategy and policy as soon as possible, but not later than the second shore tour.  Where information in 
this NAVADMIN differs from Ref (A), this NAVADMIN takes precedence.

5.  Application procedures.  The application format outlined in Ref (A) is used for both programs.  If 
applying to both the PMM and ASM programs, a single application is permissible, but the subject line 
must list the programs, in preference order, for which the officer is applying.  PMM candidates shall 
indicate preference for the one-year or two-year program. 
    a.  Interested officers should submit applications electronically to OPNAV N51 and BUPERS POCs listed 
below.  Ensure electronic copies are clear and legible prior to submission.  Send hard copy college 
transcripts and GRE scores to: Department of the Navy, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-440)
5720 Integrity Drive, Millington, TN 38055-4400

6.  Point(s) of contact.
    a.  OPNAV:  LT Alan Syslo (N515); DSN 222-4482 or comm 703-692-4482;
email: alan.syslo(at)navy.mil.
    b.  NAVPERSCOM:  LCDR Angelin Graham; DSN 882-4056 or comm 901-874-4056; e-mail: 
angelin.graham(at)navy.mil.

7.  Amplifying information about the PMM and ASM programs can be found on the NPC website under 
the Graduate Education Programs section (PERS-440).

8.  Released by VADM M. I. Fox, DCNO N3/N5.//
BT
#0001
NNNN

