UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 032132Z MAY 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 104/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CHINFO WASHINGTON DC/MAY//

SUBJ/2016 AMERICAN LEGION SPIRIT OF SERVICE AWARD//
POC/TODD MARTIN/MR./NAVCO/LOC:  MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:  (901) 874-5805/
EMAIL:  TODD.MARTIN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  For the 15th consecutive year, the American Legion will present its 
Spirit of Service Award, which recognizes outstanding volunteer community 
service, to an enlisted member (E-5 and below) from each branch of the Armed 
Forces.  The award will be presented by the National Commander, Dale Barnett, 
on stage at the Legion's national convention in Cincinnati, OH, 27 - 31 
August 2016.

2.  Eligibility.  The main criterion of the award is the level, scope and 
impact of volunteer community service that a Sailor performs while off duty 
in the local community.  The period specified by the American Legion for 
performance of the volunteer service is 1 January - 31 December 2015, and 
nominees must be E-5 or below during this period.  Nominees may be active or 
reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals.  Previous winners of 
this award are not eligible.  If chosen as the recipient, the awardee must 
attend the American Legion national convention, arriving 27 August 2016 and 
departing 31 August 2016.

3.  Travel and lodging.  Within the contiguous United States, the American 
Legion will provide travel and lodging expenses for the individual winner.  
The winner is responsible for travel expenses for family members and other 
guests.

4.  Nominations.  Nomination packages must contain the following:
    a.  Commanding Officer's (CO) nomination.  COs may nominate one Sailor 
from their command.  Nominations must be on command letterhead and indicate 
the CO's confidence in the Sailor's professionalism and as a representative 
of the Navy, the validity of the volunteer efforts and a commitment to 
facilitate their nominee's attendance at the national convention, if 
selected.  Endorsements are not required.
    b.  Description of volunteer efforts.  Include quantitative data such as 
hours, days, or months spent on off-duty volunteer community service.  This 
description should be provided in a bullet format.
    c.  Nominee biography and photo.  If chosen as the award recipient, the 
biography and photo will be used in the Legion's magazine and convention 
program.  The biography should include hometown information as well as 
professional highlights and qualifications.  The photograph should be high-
resolution in .jpg format.

5.  Nomination submission.  Nominations must be received by 20 May 2016.
Nominations must be submitted electronically to Todd.Martin(AT)navy.mil.

6.  Selection process.  Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO) will 
consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board, and recommend the top 
candidates to the American Legion, which will make the selection.  NAVCO will 
inform the winner and also notify those not selected.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L. Thomas, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
