UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 171506Z AUG 16 PSN 890350K25
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 181/16

MSGID/GENADMIN CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/2016 WORKPLACE AND GENDER RELATIONS SURVEY OF ACTIVE DUTY MEMBERS//

RMKS/1.  The 2016 Workplace and Gender Relations Survey of Active- Duty 
Members (WGRA) is underway.  This survey is conducted biennially, 
Congressionally-mandated, and is available to a select group of Sailors who 
are part of a scientifically-based sample. Selected participants will receive 
e-mails as well as letters through the U.S. Postal Service.  This survey 
assesses any experiences Sailors may have had recently with sexual harassment 
and sexual assault and is the only survey Department of Defense uses to 
measure rates of these experiences.  After conducting the survey in 2014, 
Navy implemented additional programs to improve prevention and response 
efforts.  Sailors who participated in the 2014 survey provided valuable and 
actionable information.  However, turnout was lower than anticipated.  A 
higher response rate for 2016 is desired and will inform new policies and 
initiatives.  Navy remains committed to combating unwanted behaviors and this 
survey is critical to our ability to understand the presence or absence of 
these problems in the military workplace.

2.  Selected survey participants will be or have been contacted via e-mail 
and postal mail to their address of record.  Sailors should be monitoring 
their inbox and postal mail for correspondence from Workplace and Gender 
Relations Survey wgrsurvey(at)dmdc.osd.mil for the survey link.  Sailors may 
also go to the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) website:  
http://www.dodsurveys.mil, click the button Am I in a DMDC Survey Sample? and 
enter their DoD ID number from the back of their common access card to 
determine whether they have been selected.

3.  Participation in the survey is voluntary and completely confidential.  
Selected Sailors are strongly encouraged to complete the survey, which is 
considered official business and can be completed using a government computer 
or a personal computer. Results from the survey will be used for developing 
policies that support Sailors Navy-wide.

4.  Leadership support of this survey is encouraged and expected. Leadership 
shall ensure Sailors are provided ample time to complete the survey.  
Additionally, leadership shall also ensure the widest dissemination of this 
information so that Sailors are aware of the WGRA survey, and its importance 
to the Navy.  Plan of the Day and Plan of the Week Notes are a recommended 
way to ensure all Sailors are aware that they are strongly encouraged to 
participate if notified of selection.

5.  Point of contact is Mrs. Kimberly Lahm, Licensed Marriage and Family 
Therapist, at (703) 604-1156/DSN 664 or via e-mail at 
kimberly.lahm(at)navy.mil.

6.  This message will remain in effect until 28 September 2016.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#9763
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
