UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 192155Z NOV 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 279/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV//

SUBJ/PERFORMANCE EVALUATION TRANSFORMATION//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides an update on efforts to overhaul and enhance 
our performance evaluation process.  We must improve feedback to maximize 
individual and unit performance - a must in this era of Great Power 
Competition.

2.  The new evaluation system will place emphasis on merit over seniority or 
tenure.  It eliminates forced distribution with relative ranking against 
peers in categorized groups within a command and instead rates the 
performance of a Sailor on paygrade- based objective standards.  These 
standards are captured in trait categories that reflect key attributes of 
professional competence and character.  Sailors are evaluated on value 
statements within these trait categories using an expanded 9-point scale for 
greater accuracy and distinction.  The evaluator responds intuitively during 
a short, timed window when providing a score for each value statement.  This 
approach will apply to both the proposed coaching and evaluation processes.

3.  Over the past few weeks, the Performance Evaluation Transformation (PET) 
team launched the third of five planned proof- of-concept tests.  The phase 
III test focuses on performance coaching, which is a major component of the 
modernized performance assessment approach.  Phase III testing uses a 
commercially developed, web-based tool that supports the multi-source 
assessment and feedback (MSAF) process, a performance coaching methodology 
designed to deliver candid, open and actionable feedback to all Sailors.

4.  The MSAF coaching process starts with a self-assessment, then combines 
input from subordinates, peers and the direct supervisor to provide 
comprehensive feedback through various perspectives to each Sailor.  These 
assessments can be initiated by the Sailor or by a supervisor.  An 
information-rich report is then made available for the Sailor and the 
supervisor to discuss performance and chart a way forward to drive self and 
unit improvement.  This process and tool will better enable coaching 
sessions, which are not occurring consistently across the Fleet today.

5.  The test population includes 10,000 Sailors from 140 diverse active duty 
and reserve component commands from across the Fleet.
We are sequencing selected commands through eight test phases over a 2-month 
period to rapidly incorporate feedback as we learn while bringing more units 
into the test population.

6.  If you are interested in seeing and trying out the coaching tool used 
during the test phase, please visit MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/performance.  You will find a link that will 
provide access to the tool via desktop or hand-held device to perform an MSAF 
self-assessment.  Additionally, a demonstration video, a process overview 
presentation and the training/reference products used by the Fleet test 
participants will also be available for you to view.

7.  The plan is to introduce this new design concept across the entire Fleet 
through the coaching phase while still using the current Fitness Report and 
Evaluation system before we transition to the new evaluation process.  We 
will deliver the coaching portion of the new system in mid-2019 and the 
evaluation portion soon after.
This will allow for much better mid-term counseling across the Fleet next 
year and set the conditions for a smooth transition to the enhanced 
evaluation system.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

