UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 301323Z JAN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL NAVAL RESEARCH WORKING GROUP 15-1//

NAVADMIN 026/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JAN//

RMKS/1.  This message announces that Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) will 
host an NPS Naval Research Working Group 30 March - 3 April 2015 aboard the 
Monterey campus.  The working group is an essential element in the success of 
the NPS Naval Research Program (NRP), as envisioned by the Secretary of the 
Navy.  The working group serves as a forum for Navy and Marine Corps 
organizations to communicate, review, validate, and recommend topics for NPS 
research in fiscal year 2016 (FY-16).  SECNAVINST 1524.2C states "an active 
academic research program is vital to the quality of education provided to 
students, the attraction and retention of exceptional faculty members, and 
the provision of real-time, directly relevant deliverables to government 
sponsors."  During the main event, an all-hands plenary session, attendees 
with research requirements (topic sponsors) will be asked to present a short 
briefing to faculty and students summarizing the topic(s), the benefit(s) to 
the services, and expected deliverables from the research.  Attending topic 
sponsors will have the opportunity to participate in a brief sponsor-only 
breakout session to coordinate and collaborate on research requirements of 
mutual interest prior to the plenary session.  Following the plenary session 
day, attendees will participate in student and faculty breakout sessions 
throughout the week to solidify research requirement topic definitions.  
Sponsors will also have the opportunity to conduct interim progress reviews 
for ongoing FY-15 projects.  There will be limited video teleconference (VTC) 
scheduling opportunities available for topic sponsors that are unable to 
attend the working group.  However, based upon previous experience, there is 
a greater likelihood that projects will encourage interest of faculty and 
students when topic sponsors personally present topics, discuss, and scope 
projects in real-time face-to-face meetings.

2.  Registration for the Naval Research Working Group, either as a topic 
sponsor or attending participant, can be completed online at
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/nps-naval-research-program-requirements-meeting-
15-1-tickets-14069382903.  This is an excellent annual opportunity for the 
Navy and Marine Corps to effectively leverage NPS faculty expertise and 
student operational experience as valuable research assets.  All NPS faculty 
and students are invited and encouraged to participate in the week's events 
and are required to attend the plenary session, as appropriate.

3.  Travel, billeting costs, and other arrangements associated with this 
working group will be the individual unit's responsibility.  For lodging, a 
block of rooms has been established for participants with the Navy Gateway 
Inns and Suites (NGIS), Monterey.  Reservations can be made by contacting the 
NGIS front desk at (831) 656-2060, Option 1, not later than 14 March 2015.  
The NGIS website is located at http://www.nps.edu/services/ngis/.
    a.  Conference Exception.  This working group has been designated a Title 
10 function and is therefore conference exempt.  Further, it has been 
formally vetted and meets exemption 4.b. on pages 15-16 of Deputy Chief 
Management Office, Office of the Secretary of Defence memo of 6 November 
2013, as an internal agency business matter held on a military installation, 
NPS.
    b.  Mission Critical Travel.  Although sponsor attendance is highly 
encouraged, mission criticality for working group attendance will be 
established by the travelers' command.

4.  Additional information on the NPS Naval Research Working Group 15-1 can 
be found online at 
https://wiki.nps.edu/display/NSP/NPS+Naval+Research+Program+Requirements+Meet
ing%2C+15-1.  This site includes information regarding presentation 
submission requirements, topic submission information, templates, maps, etc.  
Topic submission to the above website will be open 15 February - 15 March 
2015.  All topic slide submissions made via the website must be unclassified.

5.  Working group basic schedule (please visit the website in para. 4 above 
for more detailed information).  Monday, 30 March 2015 – Travel day Tuesday, 
31 March 2015 - Sponsor Sync Session/Keynote Speakers/Plenary Sessions 
Wednesday, 1 April 2015 – Breakout Sessions/Interim Progress Reviews (IPRs) 
Thursday, 2 April 2015 - Breakout Sessions/IPRs Friday, 3 April 2015 - 
Sponsor Hotwash/Sponsor Outbriefs/Travel day (pm).

6.  The primary point of contact for this event is LtCol Mark Raffetto at 
(831) 656-2794 or via e-mail at Raffetto(at)nps.edu. The alternate point of 
contact is Rod Abbott at (831) 656-2579 or via e-mail at rpabbott(at)nps.edu.

7.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 31 May 2015, 
whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
