UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 111904Z JUL 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 163/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL//

SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE UPDATE//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/1JAN03//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/221832ZDEC17//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/041928ZAUG16//
NARR/REF A IS NAVPERS 15665I, U.S. NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 310/17 NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVES UPDATE.  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 174/16 UNIFORM POLICY UPDATE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces an update to several Navy uniform policies 
and provides a status update on several Navy uniform initiatives.  Uniform 
policy updates include Black Relax-Fit Jacket Re-designation, Identification 
Badge Manner of Wear, Optional Physical Training Uniform Shirt and Shorts, 
Defense Contracting Management Agency (DCMA) and Allied Submarine Command 
(ASC) Identification Badges, and Female Hair Grooming Standards.
Additionally, this NAVADMIN provides status updates on the following Navy 
uniform initiatives:  Navy Uniform Mobile App Expansion, Female Officer and 
Chief Petty Officer Slacks and Skirts, and Black Leather Safety Boots.

2.  Navy Uniform Policy Update
    a.  Black Relax-Fit Jacket (Eisenhower Jacket).  Effective immediately, 
the Black Relax-Fit Jacket is re-designated as a UNISEX component vice gender 
specific.  Male and female Sailors are authorized to wear the Black Relax-Fit 
Jacket of the sizing that suits their uniform requirements.  The re-
designation of the Black Relax-Fit Jacket provides for an immediate 
availability of a wider range of sizes to accommodate both male and female 
Sailors uniform needs.  Manner and occasion for wear remains the same as 
stated in reference (a).  For example, many women find the lengths available 
for mens jacket sizes neatly cover the over blouse design.
    b.  Identification Badges Manner of Wear (Females Only).
Effective immediately, female Sailors may optionally wear Identification 
Badges on the right side of their uniform (coat or shirt).  When worn on the 
right, the Identification Badge will be centered one-fourth of an inch above 
the name tag in line with reference (a), Chapter 5, Section 1, article 5101.  
The optional manner of wear allows for the greatest visibility of 
identification badges worn on all female uniforms.
    c.  Optional Physical Training Uniform (OPTU).  The Chief of Naval 
Operations has approved a navy blue high performance PTU shirt and five-inch 
running shorts for optional wear as the PTU uniform.
Previously announced as a uniform initiative in reference (b), the OPTU will 
be available in UNISEX sizing and entail a moisture wicking anti-
microbial/odor resistant navy blue short-sleeved shirt with non-reflective 
gold logos on the front and back.  The front logo displays a new eagle design 
over the left chest.  The back logo displays AMERICAS NAVY FORGED BY THE SEA.  
The five-inch inseam shorts design features include moisture wicking anti-
microbial/odor resistant fabric with Navy logo on the front left leg and a 
zippered pocket on the back right side of the shorts.
        (1) Occasion for Wear.  The occasion for wear of the OPTU will 
coincide with the standard PTU as stated in reference (a).
        (2) Manner of Wear.  The manner of wear of the OPTU will coincide 
with the standard PTU as stated in reference (a).  The OPTU when worn as a 
uniform must consist of shirt and shorts with the new gold logos.  Mix and 
match is authorized when worn as civilian clothing.
        (3) Availability/Way Ahead.  Navy Exchange Uniform Centers and on-
line stores will commence selling the OPTU beginning October 2018.  A navy 
blue standard variant of the PTU is also under development and both the high 
performance and standard PTU will be phased into the seabag issue at RTC in 
the next 12-18 months.  Once the navy blue variants are a standard seabag 
issued item, wear of the gold PTU shirt and navy blue shorts will remain 
authorized for wear until a phase out date is promulgated.
    d.  Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) Identification Badge.  
Effective immediately, Navy military personnel actively assigned to a DCMA 
billet are authorized to optionally wear the DCMA Identification Badge.  The 
DCMA badge is not authorized for wear upon termination of assignment to the 
DCMA agency.
        (1) Description.  The DCMA Identification Badge consists of a Great 
Seal of the United States emblem overlaying 13 gold cutlasses and 13 white 
stars on a turquoise background.  The regular size badge is two inches in 
diameter and consists of the superimposed miniature badge.  The miniature 
badge is one and one- half inches in diameter and consists of the DCMA emblem 
itself.
        (2) Manner and Occasion of Wear.  The DCMA regular size metal badge 
may be worn on Service Dress uniforms.  The DCMA miniature size badge may be 
worn on Service uniforms.  The DCMA badge is not authorized for wear on 
Working, Dinner Dress, and Formal Uniforms.  Wear of the DCMA badge will be 
in line with existing guidelines prescribed in reference (a).
        (3) Availability.  The DCMA Identification Badge is available for 
purchase at Navy Exchange Uniform Centers.  The DCMA Identification Badge is 
an optional wear item and is purchased at the expense of the Sailor.
    e.  Allied Submarine Command (ASC) Identification Badge.
Effective immediately, Sailors actively assigned to Submarine Force Atlantic, 
Allied Submarine Command billets are authorized to optionally wear the ASC 
Identification Badge.  The ASC Identification Badge is not authorized for 
wear upon termination of assignment to the ASC billet.
        (1) Description.  The ASC Identification Badge consists of a shield 
with blue field edged in gold.  In the center, crossed Whitehead steam 
torpedoes surmounted with the Trident of Neptune and a World War I vintage 
submarine all in gold.  A gold banner across the Trident staff reads with the 
letters ASC.  The badge dimensions are one and three-quarters of an inch in 
length and one and one-half inch in width.
        (2) Manner and Occasion of Wear.  The ASC Identification Badge is 
authorized for wear by Sailors assigned in official ASC billets, watch 
standers of CTG 84.1 Submarine Broadcast Control Authority and CTG 84.1 
Operations personnel.  The ASC Identification Badge is authorized for wear on 
Service and Service Dress uniforms only and in line with the guidelines for 
identification badge wear in reference (a).
        (3) Availability.  The ASC Identification Badge is a controlled item.  
Issuance of the badge will be controlled by the ASC C5 Director and will only 
be worn while assigned to ASC and fulfilling NATO duties.

3.  Female Hair Grooming Standards.  Effective immediately, the female hair 
grooming standards are expanded.  Wearing of approved hairstyles is 
authorized provided doing so does not prohibit the proper wear of safety and 
damage control equipment, facilitates uniform head gear being worn squarely 
on the head, and does not present a safety hazard to the Sailor as determined 
by the unit commanding officer.
    a.  Braids and Ponytails.  Current policy permits commanding officers to 
relax hair grooming standards during command/unit physical training to 
include allowing free hanging ponytails.
Policy is now expanded to authorize wear of a single braid, French braid, or 
a single ponytail in Service, Working, and PT uniforms.
The initial accessory for the ponytail will not be visible when facing 
forward.  Authorized accessory devices must be consistent with the color of 
the hair.  The end of the braid or ponytail may extend up to three inches 
below the lower edge of the collar of the shirt, jacket or coat.  In spaces 
or environments where there are operational hazards such as rotating gear, 
etc., the hair may not be worn below the bottom of the collar.
    b.  Hair Buns.  Current policy is the bulk of the hair bun when measured 
from the scalp will not exceed three inches.  The expanded policy is that the 
width or diameter of the hair bun will not exceed or extend beyond the width 
of the back of the head.
    c.  Lock Hairstyle.  For the purpose of Navy Uniform Regulations and 
grooming standards a Lock Hairstyle (Locks) consists of one section of hair 
that twists from or near the root to the end of the hair and creates a 
uniform ringlet or cord-like appearance.  Locks may be worn in short, medium, 
and long hair lengths in the following
manner:
        (1) Locks must continue from the root to the end of the hair in one 
direction (no zig-zagging, curving, or ending before the end of the lock to 
dangle as a wisp or loose hair) and should encompass the whole head.  Locks 
partings must be square or rectangle in shape in order to maintain a neat and 
professional appearance.
        (2) Locks can be loose (free-hanging where no hair is added to the 
lock once it is started other than hair extensions that are attached at the 
end of the natural hair).  When worn loose, locks will be spaced no more than 
three-eighths of an inch apart, diameter/width will not exceed three-eighths 
of an inch, and locks will be tightly interlaced to present a neat and 
professional military appearance.  Locks may also be worn in a bun provided 
all hair grooming requirements are met.  Locks may not be worn in combination 
with other hair styles (e.g. twists, braids).
        (3) New growth (defined as hair that naturally grows from the scalp 
and has not yet been locked) will not exceed one-half inch at any time.
        (4) Locks that do not meet the above standards and do not present a 
neat and professional military appearance will not be worn in uniform.  
Commanding officers have the ultimate responsibility for determining when 
hairstyles are eccentric, faddish, or out of standards.
    d.  Relaxed Hair Requirement with Dinner Dress Uniforms.  Female Sailors 
are authorized to wear their hair below the lower edge of the collar of the 
blouse, jacket, or coat of the Dinner Dress Uniform being worn.  All other 
hair grooming requirements will be observed.

4.  Navy Uniform Initiatives Update
    a.  Expanded *OPNAV Uniform Regulations* Mobile Application (Navy Uniform 
App).  The final phase of testing of the expanded version of the Navy Uniform 
App is underway.  The expanded revision facilitates portable electronic 
access and one stop shopping to address Navy uniform and grooming standards 
inquiries, provides uniform and accoutrement illustrations, access to Navy 
Exchange on- line uniform purchases, and direct email communications with 
Navy Uniform Matters Ask The Chief.  Testing of the expanded Navy Uniform App 
is scheduled to conclude mid-July 2018.  Access for downloading is scheduled 
for the week of 23 July 2018 via The Navy App Locker at 
https://www.navyapplocker.navy.mil, Google Play Store at 
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=mil.navy.opnav or iTunes App 
Store at https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/opnav-uniform-
regulations/id1279680442?mt=8 for compatible electronic devices.
The direct link to the Navy Uniform App is at
https://www.applocker.navy.mil/#!/apps/DAF24623-F1E8-4943-8F77-5ED19F227579.
    b.  Black Leather Safety Boot.  An improved design, fit, and comfort 
general purpose black leather safety boot has been approved for optional wear 
with all Navy Working Uniforms and Coveralls.  The new design boot was 
influenced by Sailor feedback at the conclusion of the 2017 Navy Boot Study 
announced in reference (b).  It will include a padded foam collar, knitted 
black moisture wicking fabric full length liner, enhanced durability and 
multi-environment compatible (hot and cold temperature), and slip resistant 
outsole.
The improved new boot (I-Boot 4) will be available at designated fleet 
concentration Navy Exchange Uniform Centers and the Call Center commencing 
October 2018.  Designated fleet concentration Uniform Center locations 
include:  Norfolk VA, San Diego CA, Jacksonville FL, Yokosuka Japan, Great 
Lakes IL Student Store, Newport RI, and Pearl Harbor HI.  Continued testing 
and development of Navy safety footwear is on-going with the goal to develop 
an I- Boot 5 as a sea bag issued item that can be worn in multiple 
environments and minimize the need for organizational issued footwear.
    c.  Officer and Chief Petty Officer Female Slacks and Skirts.
As previously announced in reference (c), the Navy uniform and textile team 
have been working to improve the female officer/CPO Service Uniform slacks 
and skirts via concept design development and testing during 2018.  Concept 
testing has been initiated this year at Navy facilities located in Newport RI 
and Washington DC.
Feedback received from fit evaluation participants has been very positive.  
Additional testing will occur this summer to finalize pattern changes and to 
confirm fit and appearance specifications and standards.  Improvements will 
include straight line Service skirts and a lower waist and reduced rise 
(waist to top of the inseam) khaki and white Service slacks.  Availability of 
the improved design skirt and slacks in Navy Exchange Uniform Centers is 
planned to commence at the end of calendar year 2018.

5.  For questions regarding the DCMA Identification Badge, please contact 
Defense Contract Management Agency, Lt Col Paul Ferguson, at 
paul.ferguson(at)dcma.mil.  For questions regarding the ASC Identification 
Badge, please contact Commander, Submarine Force Atlantic point of contact 
LCDR Phillip N. Collins, at philip.collins.ca(at)navy.mil.

6.  Questions and comments regarding this NAVADMIN should be addressed to the 
Navy Uniform Matters Office, OPNAV N13X, via email to Mr. Robert B. Carroll, 
Head of Navy Uniform Matters Office, at robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil, LSCM 
(AW/EXW/SW) Judith P. Nelson- Williams, Deputy Head, at 
judith.nelson(at)navy.mil, LSCS(EXW) Michael L. Harvie, Reserve Component 
Specialist at michael.harvie(at)navy.mil and PS1 (SW/AW) Batricia B. Morgan 
at batricia.morgan(at)navy.mil.

7.  Retain this NAVADMIN until policy changes are incorporated in reference 
(a), superseded or canceled, whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
