UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 111744Z MAR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/FY-16 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT// 

NAVADMIN 061/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
FY-16 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) Commissioning Program.

2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all paygrades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).

3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-16 STA-21 program is 1 
July 2015.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the deadline 
date.  It is recommended that applications be mailed prior to the deadline as 
early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for submission of 
missing or illegible documents.  Deadline for submission of additional 
documentation to an applicant*s package is 1 August 2015.  No additional 
documents can be added after this date.  The selection board is scheduled to 
convene in September 2015 and the selectees will be announced via NAVADMIN.

4.  The following Target Options and Core are open for application for the 
FY-16 Selection Board:  Surface Warfare (SWO), Information Professional (IP), 
Nuclear, Special Warfare, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, 
Pilot, Civil Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps, and Oceanography (OCEANO).

5.  The following Target Options have zero select opportunity for
FY-16:  Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical Corps, 
Supply Corps, SWO/Engineering Duty, SWO/IP, and SWO/OCEANO.

6.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the
FY-15 STA-21 selection process and board.  This information is provided to 
preclude common errors:
    a.  Of the 422 applications received for FY-15, only 336 were board 
eligible.  A total of 50 were selected to participate in the
FY-15 STA-21 program.
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying 
Scholastic Aptitude Test/American College Test (SAT/ACT) test scores, missing 
commanding officer (CO) endorsement/recommendation, recent non-judicial 
punishment, missing physical fitness assessment
(PFA) cycles, missing or illegible submission of documents, and not meeting 
program age or PFA requirements.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.  
Officer interview boards shall consist of three officers; the applicant*s CO 
is not a board member and should not submit an interview appraisal sheet.  
The CO*s personal interview should be conducted only after the application is 
complete and the officer interview board has submitted their appraisals.  The 
full picture of an applicant*s academic and officer potential can only be 
determined by reviewing the SAT/ACT scores, high school/college transcripts, 
and a completed application package.
    d.  The CO*s endorsement is extremely important, especially the ranking 
of the individual among his/her peers.  The endorsement should contain 
specifics about the individual*s academic potential, commitment, leadership, 
service above self, and potential as a naval officer.  CO comments should 
specify the primary option to which the individual is applying and address 
how the individual meets qualifications for that option.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board shall be conducted in 
accordance with reference (a).  It is recommended that officers of the 
applicant*s designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in 
the interview/nomination review board to assess the applicant for their 
community.  Officer appraisals provide important insight on the applicant.  
Appraisal forms should be typed in 10 or 12 point font.  For junior Sailors 
with only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in his or 
her endorsement.
     f.  The applicant*s personal statement should address why the Sailor 
wants to become an officer, how the Sailor*s selection would improve the 
Navy, and why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must 
also address any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  
Junior Sailors should provide information on high school experiences.  High 
school transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in 
sports, clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should 
explain any mitigating issues the board needs to consider (i.e. poor high 
school or college grades and unexplained gaps).
     g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant.
Applicants must review their packages in their entirety before submitting.  
Check for misspelled words and grammar issues.  Ensure all transcripts (high 
school and all colleges) are enclosed.
Applicants must have passed the physical readiness test (PRT) with 
performance in the good category within the last year.  For applicants who 
received a waiver on the most recent PRT, points will be awarded from the 
most recent observed score from the latest full test taken within a year of 
application (i.e. Fall 2014 and Spring 2015).  A grade of satisfactory or 
failure of the above two required PRTs will make the applicant ineligible.  
Qualifying SAT/ACT scores are required.  Include any additional 
recommendations, qualifications, or other accomplishments as a part of the 
package.

7.  The Navy needs innovative and bold men and women to lead, think 
creatively, challenge assumptions, and take well*calculated risks.
Today*s Navy is composed of men and women representing dozens of different 
ethnic groups and literally hundreds of cultural backgrounds.  The Navy*s 
ability to meet leadership challenges relies on having leaders from our 
entire Navy who reflect our very best.

8.  Applications should be mailed to:
    Commander
    Naval Service Training Command OD2 STA 21
    250 Dallas Street STE A
    Pensacola FL 32508-5268

9.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements and selection procedures, refer to reference (a), contact your 
command career counselor, or visit the
STA-21 website at https://www.sta-21.navy.mil for the most up-to-date 
information.

10.  Point of contact is Naval Service Training Command, Officer Development 
Directorate, at (850) 452-9563 or via e-mail at pnsc_sta21(at)navy.mil.

11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
