UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 121311Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 200/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/ORDER TO UPDATE NAVY FAMILY ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM 
PERSONNEL CONTACT INFORMATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/1MAR11//

AMPN/REF A is OPNAVINST 3006.1, Personnel Accountability In Conjunction With 
Catastrophic Events.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the semi-annual update/verification of 
personal information in the Navy Family Accountability and Assessment System 
(NFAAS) by all Navy military and civilian personnel that must be completed no 
later than
1 October 2016.  NFAAS is the system utilized by the Navy to account for 
personnel and their families during widespread natural or man-made disasters.  
Accurate contact information of personnel and family members is required to 
facilitate a quick and accurate muster of personnel in affected areas.  As 
directed in reference (a), updates of personal information will be verified 
as current by 1 April and 1 October annually.

2.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy personnel, uniformed 
(active and reserve), Navy civilians, and OCONUS contractors per the 
following:
    a.  It is required for all military personnel to update and verify 
contact information and all categories of dependents.
    b.  It is mandatory for non-bargaining unit civilian employees to update 
their contact information.  Providing dependents information is voluntary but 
highly encouraged.
Failure to provide dependent information may exclude them from receiving 
potential benefits, if applicable.
    c.  At this time, bargaining unit civilian employees are highly 
encouraged to provide their contact and dependent information on a voluntary 
basis, until union notification and subsequent impact and implementation 
bargaining takes place (when applicable).

3.  Echelon II commanders, region commanders, and region personnel 
accountability representatives will ensure widest dissemination to all 
subordinate, tenant commands, and detachments for action as required.  All 
commanding officers (CO)/officers-in-charge (OIC) will ensure timely and 
accurate updates of Navy member and family member contact information as 
stated above.  COs/OICs will also contact the human resources office to 
request applicable union notifications.  This requirement also includes 
OCONUS contractors (must enter associated unit identification code).  A 
report of those commands not in compliance with this NAVADMIN will be 
provided to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations for review.  All 
personnel may logon to NFAAS (https://navyfamily.navy.mil) and update/verify 
contact information as required.

4.  Additionally, each command will institute policies requiring personnel to 
update their NFAAS data during check-in and check- out as standard practice.  
Military members/dependents must also update NFAAS in any instance in which 
they make a permanent change of address.  Civilian non-bargaining unit 
employees must update their contact information and are highly encouraged to 
update their dependents information on a voluntary basis whenever there is a 
change.  Civilian bargaining unit employees are highly encouraged to update 
their information whenever there is a change.

5.  For military and civilian members to update contact data, utilize the 
NFAAS site at https://navyfamily.navy.mil.  Login and update member 
information under the "My Info" tab, "Contact Information" section, and 
update sponsor's work location information.  Update family member information 
under the "My Info" tab, "Family Member Info" section.  Edit member and 
family member information as necessary and verify as current.  All family 
members enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program must be identified 
as such.

6.  The NFAAS site can also be accessed from any android, Iphone, or 
blackberry mobile devices web browser.  Although the application uses the 
same uniform resource locator address as the NFAAS website, when accessed via 
mobile device, the site will be optimized to allow easy viewing and 
navigation.  The following limited capabilities are available via the mobile 
web
application:
    a.  Update sponsor contact information.
    b.  Enter evacuation location information.
    c.  Allow users to muster.
    d.  Allow users to complete a needs assessment.

7.  CO representatives can validate contact information has been verified by 
using the personnel tab in NFAAS and use the "Export To Excel" option.  
Column N contains the date the contact information was last updated.

8.  A tool is available in NFAAS to allow commands to "pull"
personnel into their UIC.  This prevents information from incorrectly 
remaining in a previous UIC and not being accounted for in the current 
command within NFAAS.

9.  Points of contact:
    a.  NFAAS help desk/SPAWAR at (866) 946-9183 or via e-mail and can be 
reached at nfaas(at)spawar.navy.mil.
    b.  Navy Personnel Command emergency coordination center and can be 
reached at (877) 414-5358 or via e-mail at npc.cat.captain(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NFAAS Program Manager, CDR Vince Webster and can be reached at (202) 
433-4087 or via e-mail at vincent.webster(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
