RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 2212218-UUUU--RHSSSUU.
ZNR UUUUU
R 092217Z AUG 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 188/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/ACHIEVING BEST-EVER PERFORMANCE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO/071131ZAUG19/NOTAL//
AMPN/REF A IS PERSONAL FOR MESSAGE ACHIEVING BEST-EVER
PERFORMANCE.//

RMKS/1.  As the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) emphasized in
reference (a), achieving best-ever operational performance from our
Sailors and our teams requires an enduring commitment to achieving a
strong character and professional expertise.  This includes an
unrelenting focus on demonstrating signature behaviors, actions that
build both individual and team excellence.  Consistent with efforts
to strengthen our Culture of Excellence and reaffirm our high
standards, the CNO recently directed a comprehensive review of how
we assess, address and report when our shipmates behave contrary to
the core values of the Navy.  This review is complete and
highlighted areas requiring additional focus and improvement.
2.  Working with stakeholders from across the Navy, the N1 team is
working aggressively to deliver to the Fleet the policies,
authorities and tools that support the three overarching principles
that the CNO addressed in reference (a):
    a.  Maintaining justice and respect for all Sailors, while
ensuring due process.
    b.  Consistency in reporting and acting across the Navy.  This
includes both the standards we maintain and timeliness of reports
and actions.
    c.  Delegation of authority to the lowest capable and
appropriate levels - ideally to commanders and commanding officers
(CO).
3.  Consistent with observing the principles above, we will work to
improve the agility of the system so we can act in a decisive and
timely manner.  Commanders and COs are best-positioned to understand
the facts and pertinent aspects of a case, thereby ensuring timely
and thoughtful action, and the best interests of the Navy, the
command and individuals involved.  As such, many forthcoming changes
provide local leadership greater ability to act justly and swiftly
to reach a decision, while preserving due process.
4.  The following changes were developed by a team of stakeholders
from across the Navy and were reviewed and approved by the CNO and
the Secretary of the Navy.  Specific policy and process details are
now undergoing full review by appropriate stakeholders prior to
implementation over the next few months.
    a.  Documentation of Enlisted Non-Judicial Punishment (NJP).
MILPERSMAN 1626-020, Enlisted Service Record Entries, is being
revised to standardize NJP reporting.  You will soon see guidance
directing the documentation of all enlisted NJP results via the
Report and Disposition of Offenses Form(NAVPERS Form 1626/7), to
ensure consistency of reporting and proper recording of NJP results
in the Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) Field Code 38.
    b.  Administrative Letter of Reprimand (ALOR).  Once
implemented, the ALOR will provide the ability to document
misconduct or poor character in the record of an officer or enlisted
Sailor without imposition of NJP, providing an accountability tool
for instances in which misconduct merits official documentation, but
punitive action is not feasible or appropriate under the
circumstances.  We are in the early stages of developing this tool,
leveraging lessons learned from the Army and Air Force.
    c.  Report of No Misconduct.  We are developing a policy that
will require commanders and COs to submit a Report of No Misconduct
in cases in which an incident or investigation occurs that could
otherwise cause potentially negative administrative consequences,
but in which the commander/CO has determined, based on a thorough
review of the evidence, that misconduct did not occur.  Submission
of a thorough and accurate Report of No Misconduct may prevent an
unnecessary promotion withhold or delay.  Examples for when this
tool may apply include a law enforcement investigation for which a
convening authority finds no substantiated misconduct or a security
incident report generated for non-misconduct reasons.
    d.  Reporting of Security Incidents.  We are revising MILPERSMAN
1611-010, Officer Performance, and MILPERSMAN 1616-040, Enlisted
Performance, to require parallel reporting to include Navy Personnel
Command (NPC) when submitting a security incident report involving
Sailors in pay grades E6 and above.  In cases in which there is no
substantiated misconduct, this report, coupled with the Report of No
Misconduct, may prevent the need for unnecessary withhold or delay
actions triggered during post-selection board reviews.
    e.  Reporting Tools.  Efforts are underway to streamline the
misconduct and unsatisfactory performance reporting process by
providing fillable forms in lieu of current letter templates.  This
is an interim measure until command-level access to an authoritative
data environment with automated routing capabilities eliminates
manual processes and paper forms.
    f.  Officer and Enlisted Administrative Separation (ADSEP).  We
are revising policy to expand commanders and COs authority to use
notification procedures for mandatory processing cases that
currently require board procedures and to authorize conditional
waivers, which will reduce processing times for the most common
types of ADSEPs, e.g., unlawful drug use.  Sailors facing an ADSEP
Board or Board of Inquiry (BOI) will also be able to request
consideration of a waiver of the board in exchange for a General
(under Honorable conditions) characterization of service.
    g.  Separation By Reason of Best Interest of the Service
(BIOTS).  MILPERSMAN 1910-164 has been revised effective 13 July
2019 expanding the BIOTS authority.
    h.  Delegation of Show Cause Authority.  Authority to require an
officer to show cause for retention in the naval service will be
delegated to flag officers who hold General Court-Martial Convening
Authority and who are supported by a staff judge advocate.
Disapproval of show cause for cases of substantiated misconduct or
substandard performance will remain with NPC.  Delegation will not
alter or eliminate due process protections, but will lead to
timelier processing of these cases.
    i.  BOI Panel Membership.  We are evaluating the use of standing
BOI membership panels (1-3 months in duration) to optimize the
process.  We will conduct a regional pilot to validate the concept
before exploring Fleet-wide implementation.
    j.  Reserve Matters.  An assessment is underway to expand Career
Waypoints as the program management tool for Reserve reenlistments.
This will align Reserve and Active Component reenlistment policy,
and provide a necessary step before fully integrating the Career
Waypoints process into the future detailing marketplace.  We will
expand screening requirements to ensure an appropriate assessment of
substantiated misconduct is included in the process for those
seeking to transition from the Reserve to the Active Component or
between Reserve Component categories.
5.  Resources.  As underlying regulations are updated to reflect
policy and process changes, they will be summarized in a user-
friendly format via
https://www.jag.navy.mil/documents/NJS/Quickman.pdf.  All senior
leaders, legal officers and staff judge advocates should use this
site to access these resources.
6.  Our continuing drive towards a Culture of Excellence requires
that we maintain an unrelenting focus on demonstration of our
signature behaviors, to engender trust and confidence within our
ranks and with the American people.  We are entrusted to maintain
high standards of character and professional competence, and each
commander and CO is responsible and accountable to ensure our
processes reinforce this mandate.  Measures presented in this
message will help our Navy achieve best-ever performance, becoming
more effective and lethal as individuals and teams.
7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//
BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
