UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 211511Z SEP 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 232/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/MYNAVY CAREER CENTER BETA LAUNCH//

RMKS/1.  On 24 September 2018, MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) Beta goes live 
24/7  the foundational element and initial step towards a modern tiered 
service delivery model that will improve the quality of Human Resource (HR) 
services (career planning, personnel, pay and training) we provide to Sailors 
and their families.  MNCC will simplify HR tasks while reducing 
administrative burden, so Sailors can focus on what is most important - 
warfighting, mission and enjoying a better life-work balance.

2.  The components of our HR service delivery capability that we are bringing 
together in MNCC Beta are MyNavyPortal (MNP) (Tier 0), the MyNavy Career 
Center (MNCC) contact center (Tier 1) and the cadre of subject matter experts 
(SME) who provide career planning and pay and personnel support (Tier 2) to 
Sailors today.  At Tier 0, MNP provides a single point of entry for Sailors 
to get accurate information about the many different programs and services 
available to them.  MNP also provides a location where Sailors can go to 
initiate an HR action, like a personnel action request, or submit a personnel 
information update/correction.  These online services are available 24/7 and 
mirror the kind of service support we experience and come to expect in other 
facets of our daily lives.  At Tier 1, contact center agents will provide a 
central clearing house for information requests, many they can answer 
directly.  SMEs will provide the contact center agents with information they 
can share with Sailors, freeing up SMEs to process requests and work complex 
cases that require more individual attention.  Service requests will be 
tracked to completion and monitored to ensure timely and accurate responses 
are provided.  At Tier 2, detailers and personnel and pay professionals can 
better focus on more complex transactions, allowing routine calls to be 
handled by Tier 1 contact center agents.

3.  Starting 24 September 2018, the MNCC Contact Center will have 200+ agents 
standing by supporting around-the-clock operations, ready to respond to 
Sailor questions and requests for help across the globe.  Sailors, retirees 
and dependents can all use the MNCC contact center.  Service requests can be 
started through a phone call, an email or through MNP - all of these channels 
will be connected to the same contact center for resolution and tracking.

4.  These Sailor-centric self-service capabilities augment but do not replace 
the need for direct command leadership engagement on behalf of their Sailors.  
Command authority and action are still the drivers for most career actions.  
Command Pay and Personnel Administrators remain the most important and most 
direct link between commands and supporting personnel offices.  MNP and MNCC 
contact center will be in place to augment and support the services currently 
provided by your supporting personnel office.

5.  We strive to make it easier for you to conduct pay and personnel 
transactions with more responsive customer service.
More than ever, we need our fighting force to focus on becoming more lethal 
and ready, and believe these HR improvements will help remove a few 
distractions along the way to getting us to that end.  To assist us, we need 
constructive feedback on how we are doing, so please try out the new 
capabilities through MNP and MNCC.  We look forward to serving and hearing 
from you.

6.  In the coming months, you can expect release of a mobile version of MNP 
that is accessible without use of a Common Access Card.  For now, MNP 
continues to operate through our dated personnel IT systems.  Next year, you 
will see vastly improved, faster service and more features as we transition 
to a modern system.

7.  MyNavy Career Center can be contacted via phone at 1-833- 330-MNCC (833-
330-6622) or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.
Also additional information can be found at my.navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

