UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 291443Z SEP 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 218/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/NAVY RATING MODERNIZATION//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the first phase of a multi-year 
implementation effort to transform current Navy Enlisted Career Management 
processes.

2.  This modernization effort is the result of a review of Navy rating titles 
completed this year by the Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy and his 
leadership mess.  As a result, the Secretary of the Navy announced that the 
Navy will develop a new approach to enlisted ratings that provides greater 
detailing flexibility, training and credentialing opportunities, and 
ultimately translates Navy occupations more clearly to the American public.  
The intent is to transform our enlisted personnel business processes to 
maximize talent management and career flexibility, while arming our Sailors 
with superior training and widely recognized credentials that will convey to 
the civilian workforce.

3.  Navy will move from Rating Titles to alpha-numeric Navy Occupational 
Specialty (NOS) codes.  This change is a first step on the way to providing 
Sailors the opportunity to move back and forth between occupations.  This 
change represents a significant cultural shift and it is recognized that it 
will not happen overnight, but will take time to become fully implemented.

4.  Effective immediately, enlisted Navy Sailors will be addressed by rank 
vice by rating.  E1 through E3 Sailors will be addressed as "Seaman," E4 
through E6 will be called "Petty Officer Third/Second/First Class" as 
appropriate and senior enlisted paygrades of E7 through E9 will be called 
"Chief, Senior Chief, or Master Chief" depending on their paygrade. For 
example, a Sailor will no longer be called YN2.  Instead, he or she will be 
called a "Second Class Petty Officer," or simply "Petty Officer."  There will 
no longer be a distinction between "Airman, Fireman, and Seaman."  They will 
all be "Seamen."  As we move toward a Navy where Sailors may hold multiple 
occupations, rating titles will no longer be applicable.  Addressing our 
Sailors by rank also brings us more in line with the other services.

5.  NOS codes will be grouped under logical and broader career fields.  These 
career fields will enable flexibility to move between occupational 
specialties within career fields and they will be tied to appropriate 
training and qualifications.  Each NOS will be matched with similar civilian 
occupations to enable the Navy to identify credentials and certifications 
recognized and valued within the civilian workforce.  The Navy will 
aggressively pursue opportunities for Sailors to earn credentials recognized 
and held by their civilian counterparts and incorporate those credentials 
into Sailors professional development.

6.  A working group was formed in July to identify personnel policies, 
management programs, and information technology systems that may require 
modification to support this effort. The working group has developed 
recommendations and a plan of action and milestones to fully implement the 
transformation to NOS.  Changes to personnel management processes, policies, 
programs and systems will proceed in deliberate and thoughtful phases that 
will enable transitions that are seamless and largely transparent to the 
fleet.  Fleet involvement and feedback will be solicited during each phase of 
the transformation.  All aspects of enlisted force management to include 
recruiting, detailing, advancements, training, and personnel and pay 
processes are being carefully considered as we move forward.

7.  This change is one step in a larger effort to modernize our personnel 
systems, and will benefit all Sailors with greater career flexibility while 
in the Navy and after they depart the Service.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
