UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 111747Z DEC 14 PSN 669620K29
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 275/14

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR BYSTANDER INTERVENTION TO THE FLEET TRAINING//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO/WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC/

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/021827ZOCT14//AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 228/14, 
BYSTANDER INTERVENTION TO THE FLEET (BI2F) TRAINING//

RMKS/1.  Based directly on Sailor feedback and lessons learned from our 
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response efforts, new Bystander Intervention to 
the Fleet (BI2F) training has been created and began this fall.  BI2F 
training will be completed no later than 30 September 2015.  As this training 
will bridge several topic areas, the fraternization, hazing, physical 
readiness, and sexual health General Military Training (GMT) requirements for 
FY-15 have been eliminated.  BI2F will count for these GMT lessons.

2.  Background.  Building on our core value of courage, BI2F is peer-led 
training designed to prevent destructive behaviors and promote an environment 
of professionalism, respect, and trust.

3.  Training.  Training will be delivered to all active and reserve Sailors 
by certified command facilitators (CF) selected by their individual commands.  
Designated CFs will be trained by Master Mobile Training Teams (MMTT) from 
the Center for Personal and Professional Development (CPPD) and will then 
deliver the interactive video and facilitated face-to-face (F2F) sessions in 
small groups (8-30 personnel) to their peers within the command.
Peer-to-peer training is a critical element of BI2F designed to encourage 
open, honest dialogue among those of similar age and experience level.
    a.  Recommended peer groupings:  Commanding officers should define the 
peer group audiences within their command to maximize the consistency of age, 
experience, and background among group members and select facilitators from 
each group to deliver this peer-level training.  Suggested peer groupings are 
junior level:  E5 and below; mid-level:  E6-E8/O1-O3; and senior level:  
E9/O4 and above.
    b.  Each command BI2F session will be facilitated by two CFs who fall 
within the same peer group as the training audience.  Commands may designate 
multiple command facilitators per peer group as command size warrants.  The 
success of BI2F training depends on the selection of exemplary and dynamic 
CFs who have the ability to actively engage Sailors while delivering the BI2F 
course materials.

4.  BI2F training and delivery
    a.  Active Component (AC):
        (1) Primary method:  Facilitated F2F discussion by MMTT - certified 
CFs.
    b.  Reserve Component (RC):
        (1) Primary method:  Facilitated F2F discussion by MMTT - certified 
CFs.
        (2) Navy Operational Support Centers (NOSC) and Navy Reserve 
Commissioned units will designate CFs in accordance with the above guidance.  
NOSC and commissioned unit CF will then deliver BI2F training to assigned 
subordinate reserve unit personnel.
        (3) Non-commissioned reserve units may send personnel to CF 
certification training and conduct BI2F training independently within their 
unit, subject to prior coordination with the servicing NOSC.

5.  Documentation.  Completion of BI2F training should be documented locally 
and available for echelon II commanders to verify as part of their regular 
audit and spot check procedures.
    a.  New accession Sailors who completed BI training at "A" School (CPPD-
BI-3, all 3 sessions) and reported to their first operational command after 1 
November 2014 are exempt from receiving BI2F training at the discretion of 
their commanding officer.

7.  Resources.  Commands may access Navy BI2F training information via the 
NPC 21st Century Sailor webpage (http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_century_sailor/pages/default.aspx).  The BI2F training 
webpage will contain up-to-date policy information, training materials, CF 
training schedules and locations, and FAQs.

8.  Action required:
    a.  All commands shall:
        (1) Ensure at least two CFs are identified for each command peer 
group and attend CF certification training.  Register for CF certification 
training online at https://esams.cnic.navy.mil/esams_gen_2/loginesams.aspx.  
Select the training registration option at the bottom of the webpage and then 
follow directions to access BI2F CF training schedules.
        (2) Deliver and document BI2F training as explained above.
            b.  Joint commands shall ensure the Navy Element Commander 
executes BI2F training for all assigned Navy personnel per this NAVADMIN.

9.  BI2F TF points of contact are CAPT Patricia A. Enright, BI2F TF Chief of 
Staff, at (757) 492-5623/DSN 492-5623 or via e-mail at 
patricia.enright(at)navy.mil or CDR Heath L. Marcus, BI2F TF Deputy Chief of 
Staff, at (757) 492-5640/DSN 492-5640 or via e-mail at 
heath.marcus(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#1398
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

