UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 041619Z MAR 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN
CMC WASHINGTON DC
COMDT COGARD WASHINGTON DC

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/2015 SPRING INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AWARDS SOLICITATION 

NAVADMIN 056/15

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1650.26C//

AMPN/OPNAV N2N6 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE AWARDS PROGRAM INSTRUCTION// 
POC/OBRADOVICH/LT/OPNAV N2N6C1/-/TEL:  (703) 604-6152/TEL:  DSN 664-
6152/EMAIL:  MARK.OBRADOVICH(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This message builds on guidance provided in reference (a) and 
solicits nominations for the Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic 
Excellence, the Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton Leadership Award, the Vice 
Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership, and the Vice Admiral Rufus L. 
Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence Instruction.
    a.  The Directors of the Defense Intelligence Agency and Naval 
Intelligence established the Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic 
Excellence in 2001 to recognize the civilian or military analyst working 
maritime issues who exemplifies, through his/her work and attitude, Mr. 
Dworkin's traits of analytic expertise, strength of character, initiative, 
industriousness, and exactitude.
        (1) Nominees should be active and reserve component Naval 
Intelligence Officers in paygrades O3 or O4, Intelligence Chief Warrant 
Officers in paygrades W2 through W5, or civilian GG/GS 11 through 14.
        (2) Nominees should have at least 10 years of experience in the field 
of maritime intelligence analysis and be analytically active.  The award is 
not necessarily to identify the single best analyst; rather, it is to choose 
a member of the naval and maritime analytic community (either regional or 
functional specialty) who is viewed as an exemplary representative of the 
group as a whole and routinely performs in a fashion characteristic of Mr. 
Dworkin.
        (3) As a long-time supporter of the Naval Intelligence Awards 
Program, the Naval Intelligence Professionals (NIP) recognizes the awardee of 
the Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic Excellence with a 
commemorative plaque.  Additionally, a brass plate inscribed with the 
selectee's name will be affixed to a large plaque at the Office of Naval 
Intelligence.
    b.  The Director of Naval Intelligence established the Rear Admiral Edwin 
T. Layton Leadership Award in 2001 to recognize outstanding leadership and 
mentorship in the furtherance of naval intelligence performance.
        (1) Nominees should be active and reserve component Naval 
Intelligence Officers in paygrades O4 through O6, Intelligence Chief Warrant 
Officers in paygrades W3 through W5, or Intelligence Specialists in ranks E6 
through E9.  In rare cases, exceptions to the grade criteria will be 
considered.
        (2) Each person nominated must exemplify the leadership qualities of 
honor, courage, and commitment and be exceptionally dedicated to ensuring the 
professional and personal well-being and development of their people.  Award 
winners should be clearly recognized as leadership role models for the 
community.
        (3) Seniors, juniors, or peers may nominate individuals for the Rear 
Admiral Edwin T. Layton Leadership Award.  Nominees will not compete against 
other nominees; rather, they will be evaluated based on how well they embody 
the qualities of leadership and mentorship the award seeks to recognize.  
There is no set number of awards to be given each year.  Nomination packages 
must be forwarded by the nominee's current command.
        (4) Recipients of the award will be recognized with a commemorative 
NIP medal and a certificate of accomplishment signed by the Director of Naval 
Intelligence.
    c.  The Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Leadership Award recognizes one 
active and one reserve component intelligence officer, Intelligence 
Specialist, or civilian personnel who exemplifies excellence and exceptional 
dedication to duty within the naval intelligence community.
        (1) Two candidates shall be selected for this award:
            (a) One active component Naval Intelligence Officer in paygrades 
O5 or O6, Intelligence Chief Warrant Officer in paygrades of W2 through W5, 
Intelligence Specialist in ranks E6 through E9, or civilian GS/GG 14 or 15.
            (b) One reserve component Naval Intelligence Officer in paygrades 
O5 or O6 or reserve Intelligence Specialist in ranks E6 through E9.
        (2) This award recognizes individuals with senior-level leadership 
experience (e.g., Leading Chief Petty Officer afloat, post-commander 
milestone tour, or mid-to-senior civilian position).  Each nominee must 
exemplify excellence and exceptional dedication to duty, demonstrating 
superior performance in providing operational intelligence to naval and joint 
forces, benefiting the naval intelligence community.
        (3) The National Military Intelligence Association (NMIA) recognizes 
the Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor leadership awardees at the annual NMIA 
awards banquet, time and location TBD.  The banquet provides a public forum 
in which U.S. Military Intelligence professionals are recognized for the 
vital mission they perform.  Awardees will be notified of banquet details and 
invited to attend.
    d.  The Naval Intelligence Foundation (NIF) established the Vice Admiral 
Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence Instruction in 1989.  
Two candidates shall be selected, one from Center for Information Dominance 
(CID) Unit Hampton Roads and one from the CID Unit San Diego.
        (1) One candidate shall be selected from each CID unit.
        (2) This award recognizes U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps military 
members serving as instructors, faculty, or staff at CID Unit Hampton Roads 
and CID Unit San Diego.  Each nominee must exemplify excellence in 
intelligence instruction based on time honored principles which Vice Admiral 
Taylor exemplified throughout his career:  a desire for professional 
knowledge, intellectual curiosity, initiative, enthusiasm, ability to command 
respect and motivate others, devotion to duty, effective communication 
skills, and personal and intellectual integrity.
        (3)  Award winners shall receive from NIF an engraved, commemorative 
wall plaque, an engraved solid brass telescope, and a 5-year membership in 
NIP.  Permanent plaques bearing the names of the winners are also on display 
at both schoolhouses.

2.  Nomination packages submission instructions:
    a.  Forward all reserve component nomination packages for the Vice 
Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Leadership Award per Commander, Information Dominance 
Corps Reserve Command (CIDCRC) guidance to CIDRC POCs:  YN1 Bracamonte, 
adrian.bracamonte(at)navy.mil; YN2 Palacios, ricardo.palacios1(at)navy.mil; 
and YN3 Jones, tommie.jones(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Forward all Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in 
Intelligence Instruction nomination packages to respective CID Unit POCs:  
Mr. Banks, larry.banks(at)navy.mil (CID Unit Hampton Roads) or Ms. Storch, 
stephanie.storch(at)navy.mil (CID Unit San Diego).
    c.  All other nominations should be sent to OPNAV N2N6 POC, LT 
Obradovich, mark.obradovich@navy.mil.

3.  All packages should be sent no later than 29 March 2015.

4.  Nomination packages must include:
    a.  Nominee name, rank, designator, and projected rotation date.
    b.  Reporting senior*s name, rank, phone number, and mailing address.
    c.  Address for the nominee*s gaining command if transferring before June 
2015.
    d.  Significant contributions (bullet format).  Highlight qualities and 
accomplishments consistent with the specific award's criteria.  The 
nomination should be specifically focused on current factors rather than a 
career description.
    e.  Short biography (for the Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Leadership 
Award).
    f.  Draft citation to accompany the award (for the Herman Dworkin Award 
for Maritime Analytic Excellence and Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Leadership 
Award). Ensure citations are also submitted in Microsoft Word or another 
editable format.
    g.  Command letter of endorsement.

5.  Nomination templates are posted to the Intelligence Community Management 
page on Navy Knowledge Online, at https://www.nko.navy.mil/group/intel-
community-management/home (Common Access Card login required).

6.  Incomplete packages or packages failing to meet all guidance as outlined 
in this message will not be considered.  Late submissions will not be 
accepted.

7.  OPNAV N2N6C will organize a board of senior intelligence personnel to 
select recommended nominees.  Board recommendations will be forwarded to the 
Director of Naval Intelligence for final approval.

8.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
