UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 081342Z SEP 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 213/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-16 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING SCHEDULE//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/YYMMMDD//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1500.22H, GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces a significant change to the General Military 
Training (GMT) program for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016, and should be read in its 
entirety.  In May of this year, Secretary Mabus announced that he would be 
ending GMT as we know it.  In response, we greatly reduced the standardized 
annual requirements for FY-16 GMT and completely redesigned the GMT program 
framework to empower local leadership to tailor many training topics to the 
needs of their Sailors.  This new program framework differentiates between 
those training lessons that require standardized annual delivery to all 
uniformed personnel, and those that allow more flexible delivery.  Reference 
(a) provides more information.

2.  The first component in this new framework is Standardized Core Training 
(SCT).  It is limited primarily to those topics which are mandated by higher 
authority for annual delivery to all uniformed personnel.  A few support 
topics are retained as annual requirements due to their direct ties to other 
annual training requirements. These lessons will be delivered using 
standardized training materials.  A portion will require face-to-face 
delivery while the rest will allow completion by each individual.

3.  The second component has been named Navy Command-Assigned Readiness-
Enhancement (CARE) training.  This is a flexible, locally-run training 
program, operating within a minimal framework, which ensures coverage of key 
topics to enhance individual and command readiness.  It allows multiple 
options for topic delivery, including Navy-wide directed training (e.g., 
Bystander Intervention to the Fleet), use of locally-generated or 
standardized products, and multiple training venues (e.g., Safety Stand-
downs, Command Indoc, ISIC Workshops, etc.).  Navy CARE training will allow 
command triads to prioritize and customize training delivery and is further 
divided into two sub-components.  A portion of the training is tied to the 
platforms deployment cycle with a minimal biennial completion requirement.  
This allows commands to tailor the delivery schedule to coincide with periods 
where it may be most impactful and relevant.  The remainder of the topics in 
the Navy CARE portion of GMT allow for complete command discretion in 
determining when the training is necessary, the most effective training 
delivery method, the training content to be used, and the required audience.
Standardized training products will remain available and accessible on the 
GMT Web page for those commands desiring to use them.

4.  The following lessons are included in the SCT program and are mandatory 
for FY-16:
    a.  These topics require face-to-face, instructor led sessions provided 
at the command level.  Commands must utilize senior leadership to deliver 
this training.  Commands are encouraged to leverage local subject matter 
experts and collateral duty officers to compliment the standardized training 
content:
        (1) Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Awareness
            (a) Department of Defense (DoD) has directed that commands 
deliver Sexual Harassment training, when practicable, at the same time as 
SAPR training.
            (b) To support this directive, commands should plan to deliver 
the Equal Opportunity/Sexual Harassment/Grievance Procedures (EO/SH) training 
in conjunction with SAPR.
            (c) If coincident delivery is not practicable, separate EO/SH 
training delivery is still required under this category.
        (2) Suicide Prevention
    b.  These topics are also required for FY-16, utilizing standardized 
training products.  They may be completed face-to-face (where an available 
lesson format supports) or through individual completion of the courses 
listed on the GMT Web page:
        (1) Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP) General Awareness
        (2) Antiterrorism Level I Awareness
        (3) Cyber Security Awareness
        (4) Counterintelligence Awareness and Reporting
        (5) Operations Security
        (6) Privacy and Personally Identifiable Information
        (7) Records Management

5.  The following lessons are part of the Navy CARE training program for 
FY-16:
    a.  This list of topics must be delivered once per deployment cycle and 
may utilize locally-developed training resources or standardized content as 
desired.  For those commands in which a deployment cycle is either not 
applicable or would exceed two years between deployments, these topics must 
be delivered once every two years (biennially):
        (1) Alcohol, Drugs, and Tobacco Awareness
        (2) Stress Management
        (3) Domestic Violence Prevention and Reporting
        (4) Sexual Health and Responsibility
    b.  This list of topics should be delivered to the appropriate audience 
at an appropriate periodicity as determined by the command triad.  Delivery 
may include locally-generated content or utilize standardized products as 
desired.  There is no minimum periodicity associated with these topics, but 
commands are encouraged to exercise this flexibility to ensure the right 
people receive training as necessary:
        (1) Physical Readiness
        (2) Hazing Policy and Prevention
        (3) Personal Financial Management
        (4) Operational Risk Management
        (5) Energy Policy

6.  Taken as a whole, this new approach results in more than a 40 percent 
reduction in the yearly mandatory GMT delivery requirements. We continue to 
work with DoD and Secretary of the Navy to update relevant instructions, 
pursue additional consolidation, and provide more effective and efficient 
training options.  One such initiative is the creation of mobile applications 
that may be loaded onto personal electronic devices (e.g., smart phones, 
tablets, etc.) and used to complete certain GMT lessons at a more convenient 
time.  We expect the first mobile apps to become available later this year 
and will provide download information via the GMT Web page.

7.  The Navy’s official GMT Web page remains the best resource for 
information related to the GMT program.  It is updated regularly and remains 
the primary resource for any changes to related training requirements or 
revised training availability.  To access this web page, go to Navy Knowledge 
Online (NKO) at https://www.nko.navy.mil. Once logged into NKO, select the 
GMT option under the Personal Development menu item to access the Navys GMT 
page.

8.  Individually-completed web-based training is automatically recorded and 
tracked in the individuals electronic training jacket. Command-delivered 
training completion is recorded in the Fleet Management and Planning System 
(FLTMPS) via the learning event completion form.  Detailed instructions are 
available online at https://ntmpsweb.ncdc.navy.mil/fltmps, by contacting the 
support office at (866-438-2898), and posted on the NKO GMT page.  Send 
questions or feedback via e-mail to gmt.distribution(at)navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2016.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
