UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 261848Z JUL 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N3N5//

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 183/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N3N5//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/JUL//


SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2019-2020 FEDERAL EXECUTIVE FELLOWSHIP, U.S. NAVY HUDSON 
FELLOWSHIP, AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE EXECUTIVE FELLOWS CALL FOR 
APPLICATIONS//


REF/A/DOC/CNO/22JUN2010//

REF/B/DOC/CNO/07JAN2015//

REF/C/DOC/N3N5/11JUL2018//

REF/D/DOC/CNO/141554ZJAN15//

NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowship, Graduate 
Education Programs, and Community Sponsorship.  Ref B is OPNAVINST 1520.23C, 
Graduate Education.  Ref C is the approved slate of AY2019-2020 and 2020-21 
FEF institutions.  Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, Establishment of the Naval 
Strategy Subspecialty 2300X//


RMKS/1.  This is a call for applications for the Academic Year
2019-2020 (AY19-20) Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF), U.S. Navy Hudson 
Fellowship, and the Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows
(SDEF) programs.  The FEF program and the Hudson Fellowship are two of the 
Navy's key means to develop naval strategists through an exposure tour with 
leading policy and academic institutions.  The SDEF provides a venue for 
exceptional officers to experience innovative business practices and 
incorporate those best practices into the Navy through subsequent tours.


2.  Navy Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF) Program.  The FEF Program 
provides selected officers an opportunity to improve their understanding of 
the national security decision-making process through assignment to world-
class research organizations and academic institutions.  Fellows will serve 
follow-on tours in a number of critical strategy and policy, national 
security decision-making, and international engagement billets on major Joint 
and Navy staffs.

    a.  Eligibility.  Active duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line (URL) and 
Restricted Line (RL) officers in designators 1710, 1810, 1820, and
1830 are eligible to apply.  Full Time Support (FTS) officers are not 
eligible for the FEF program.

    b.  Program specifics.  Thirteen officers will be selected for
AY19-20 fellowships, which begin in August 2019 following a two-week 
orientation in the Pentagon.  The 13 FEF institutions include the following:
        (1) Washington, D.C. non-profit think tanks:
            (a) Atlantic Council
            (b) Center for a New American Security (CNAS)
            (c) Center for Strategic and Budgetary
                Assessments (CSBA)
            (d) Center for Strategic and International
                Studies (CSIS)**
        (2) Washington, D.C. research and development centers:
            (a) RAND Corporation
            (b) Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics
                Laboratory (JHU APL) - emphasis on R&D,
                advanced technology research
        (3) Beyond the Beltway non-profit think tanks:
            (a) Hoover Institution, Stanford University,
                Stanford, CA.
            (b) Chicago Council on Global Affairs,
                Chicago, Il.
        (4) Beyond the Beltway Universities:
            (a) Tufts University, Fletcher School of Law
                and Diplomacy, Medford, MA.
            (b) Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of
                Government, Cambridge, MA.
            (c) Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
                Security Studies Program, Cambridge, MA.
            (d) Georgia Institute of Technology, Sam
                Nunn School of International Affairs,
                Atlanta, GA.
            (e) Carnegie Mellon University, Institute for
                Politics and Strategy, Pittsburgh, PA.

** The CSIS fellow will also be an adjunct fellow at the US Naval Institute 
(USNI), Annapolis, MD.

    c.  Per references (a) and (d), URL officers who complete a FEF tour will 
receive the 2300S Naval Strategy subspecialty and the 24C Additional 
Qualification Designation (AQD) codes.
Restricted Line officers will receive the 2000S National Security Studies 
subspecialty and the 24C AQD codes.

    d.  Service obligation.  Per reference (a), FEF graduates incur a service 
obligation three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship.  FEF 
tours are normally 10-12 months in length,depending on institution 
requirements.  FEF graduates will serve at least one reutilization tour in a 
validated naval strategist billet in a major
N5 or J5 staff billet as soon as possible, but not later than the second 
subsequent shore tour.  Some officers may serve in multiple strategy 
positions after the fellowship program, subject to career timing and on a 
not-to-interfere basis with their chosen warfighting specialty.


3.  U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, University of Oxford, UK.
Typically hosted through Oxfords St. Antonys College, the Hudson Fellow will 
attend the Changing Character of War (CCW) program, led by the History 
Faculty at Oxford.  CCW brings together representatives of the British Armed 
Services, Government, and multinational organizations to provide practical 
knowledge in the interdisciplinary study of war and armed conflict.

    a.  Eligibility.  Active duty O5-O6 URL and RL officers in designators 
1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830 are eligible to apply.
Post-command officers are preferred by Oxford.  FTS officers are not eligible 
for the Hudson Fellowship.

    b.  Program Specifics.  One (1) officer will be selected for AY 2019-
2020.  The Hudson fellowship will begin in August 2019.
In addition to the U.S. Navy's Selection Board, a final screening and 
approval by the University of Oxford Governing Board is required.
Applicants must include a 2-page research proposal with their applications.  
The Oxford research proposal template can be found at the Naval Personnel 
Command's website under Education Placement, 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/Detailing/
educationplacement/Pages/default.aspx.

    c.  Per references (a) and (d), URL officers who complete this program 
will receive the 2300S subspecialty and the 24D AQD codes.
RL officers will receive the 2000S subspecialty and the 24D AQD codes.

    d.  Service obligation.  Per reference (a), Hudson fellowship graduates 
incur a service obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of 
the fellowship.  Hudson fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months in length.  
The Hudson Fellow will serve at least one reutilization tour in a validated 
naval strategist billet in a major N5 or J5 staff billet as soon as possible, 
but not later than the second subsequent shore tour.  Some officers may serve 
in multiple strategy positions after the fellowship program, subject to 
career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with their chosen warfighting 
specialty.


4.  Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF).  This program provides a 
venue for exceptional officers to experience innovative business practices 
within the nation's leading corporations.  Military fellows from each of the 
Services are paired with senior executives in various corporations known for 
their willingness to challenge and adapt their business practices.

    a.  Eligibility.  All active duty URL and RL O5-O6 officers are eligible.  
FTS officers are not eligible for the SDEF.

    b.  Program specifics. Up to four (4) Navy officers will be selected for 
AY19-20.  Fellowships will begin in July 2019.  Past fellows were assigned to 
corporations such as 3M, Apple, Amazon, Boeing, Caterpillar, Cisco Systems, 
Deutsche Bank, Exxon Mobil, FedEx, General Dynamics, Google, Intel, Lockheed 
Martin, JPMorgan Chase, Merck, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, Salesforce.com, and 
SpaceX.

    c.  Officers who complete this program will receive the 2000S 
subspecialty code and the 24F AQD code. More details regarding SDEF can be 
found at:
http://prhome.defense.gov/readiness/educationtraining/sdef.aspx.

    d.  Service obligation. Per reference (b), fellowship graduates incur a 
service obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship. SDEF tours are normally 12 months in length, depending on 
required detachment for the next duty station.

    e.  Reutilization.  One of the four selected SDEF Fellows may be assigned 
a 1 year follow-on tour at the Defense Business Board with the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense in the National Capitol Region. The remaining SDEF 
Fellows should expect follow-on assignment to positions involved in strategic 
management issues related to innovation and transformation.


5.  Application Procedures and Timeline.

    a.  Officers are encouraged to apply to those fellowships for which they 
are eligible.  A single application for multiple programs is acceptable; 
annotate which programs you are applying for in the subject line.

    b.  Applications require a personal statement to the board, curriculum 
vitae, undergraduate transcripts, biography, and endorsement letters from 
your Commanding Officer and detailer.
Use reference (a), enclosure 1, for sample applications.

    c.  Interested officers should submit applications for all programs via 
encrypted email to the NAVPERSCOM and OPNAV POCs listed at the end of this 
NAVADMIN.  Prior to submission, ensure the electronic copies are clear, 
legible, and properly endorsed.
If email is unavailable, mail applications to:

Navy Personnel Command
Attn:  PERS 443B
5720 Integrity Drive
Millington, TN  38005

    d.  Applications are due to Navy Personnel Command NLT
11 September 2018.  All supplemental information to the board (e.g. Letters 
of Recommendation) must be received NLT
29 October 2018.  The selection board will convene in mid- November 2018 and 
results will be announced via NAVADMIN in December 2018.


6.  Points of Contact.  Contact POCs listed below for specific program 
questions.  Direct all application questions to either OPNAV N515 or 
NAVPERSCOM.

    a.  OPNAV (FEF/Hudson): Mr. Edward Fay (N5I6BB); DSN 260-4781 or COMM 
571-256-4782; Email:
edward.fay(at)navy.mil.

    b.  OPNAV (FEF/Hudson):  David Loneman, N5I6; DSN: 225-5461 or COMM 793-
695-5461; Email:  david.r.loneman.ctr(at)navy.mil.

    c.  NAVPERSCOM (FEF/Hudson):  PERS-440_submit.fct(at)navy.mil.

    d.  OSD (SDEF):  Mr. Steven E. Briggs; 202-409-3068; Email:
steven.e.briggs2.civ(at)mail.mil.


7.  Released by VADM A. L. Lewis, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans and Strategy (N3/N5).//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

