UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 261443Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 216/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-17 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY LEADERSHIP EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
MASTERS PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the
FY-17 Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) masters program.
The United States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking motivated, academically and 
professionally qualified unrestricted line officers for the FY-17 LEAD 
Masters program.  Selected officers will serve as both company officers and 
role models for our future Naval officers.  The USNA company officer masters 
program is a unique opportunity for junior LEAD officers to participate in a 
36-month graduate education and leadership experience.  The program combines 
a fully-funded masters program in leadership education and development from a 
top-tier DC/Baltimore area university with a required two-year follow-on 
commitment as a company officer at USNA.
Previous cohorts have studied at the University of Maryland College Park and 
The George Washington University.  Officers attend classes at the university 
and within the Naval Academy at Luce Hall.

2.  Additional information can be found on the USNA website at 
http://www.usna.edu/lead/lead-masters-program/.

3.  Community specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional eligibility 
requirements follow:
    a.  Surface:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12-14 surface warfare qualified officers who have 
demonstrated superior performance and upward career mobility, and are able to 
execute a 36-month tour of shore duty.
Officers should complete the 36-month program in time to begin department 
head school by the 7.5 year of commissioned service.
Eligible officers will compete in a Surface Warfare Officer Assignment (PERS-
41) held Talent Management board; board specifics will be announced via 
separate correspondence.  Contact PERS-41 junior officer detailers for 
additional information.
        (2) Department head retention bonus contract must be submitted 
immediately upon selection for the LEAD Program.
Department head school attendance and successful completion of two department 
head tours as defined by PERS-41 is required following completion of USNA 
assignment.
    b.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG12
        (2) PERS-42 will review all applications and recommend for selection 
top performing officers who can meet Submarine Officers Advanced Course 
(SOAC) gate at 7.5 years of commissioned service.
SOAC attendance and completion of a department head tour is required 
following completion of USNA assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG10-12 (eligible for first shore tour)
        (2) Satisfactory PERS-43 evaluation

4.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to cognizant detailer.
A sample can be found at http://www.usna.edu/LEAD/Lead-Masters-
Program/LEAD-Program-Application.php.  The application package must
include:
        (1) Completed application page (PDF fillable version found at the 
website above).
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past twelve months).
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the reason for the 
application to the LEAD program, how the program fits into your career goals 
and your expectations with respect to the program.
        (4) Biography (following the format provided at the website above).
        (5) All higher education transcripts.
        (6) Copy of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores taken within the 
last five years (or statement explaining why you are unable to take the GRE 
such as deployment or operational commitments).
        (7) Chain of command endorsement (required).
        (8) Additional professional and academic letters of recommendation 
(desired, not required).
    b.  Provide additional original transcripts from all college and/or 
graduate education sent to, LEAD Masters Program Manager 112 Cooper Road Mail 
Stop 7-C Annapolis, Maryland 21402-1305.  This is in addition to the 
transcripts required for the application.
    c.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the cognizant 
detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All applications will be vetted 
through detailers to verify career timing impact.

5.  Timeline:
    a.  Surface Warfare Officers refer to your communitys detailer for 
guidance.
    b.  24 October 2016:  application deadline to submarine or aviation 
community detailer.
    c.  31 October 2016:  nominees forwarded to USNA for selection/ approval.
    d.  12 December 2016:  USNA final selections made and forwarded to PERS-
440.
    e.  19 December 2016:  no later than date for applicants informed of 
selection/non selection.
    f.  1 May 2017:  report date for selected individuals.  Classes will 
begin mid-May 2017.

6.  Points of contact:  LT Galo Cavalcanti at
(901) 874-3616/DSN 882, fax at (901) 874-2676, or via e-mail at 
galo.cavalcanti(at)navy.mil and LCDR Alex Dietrich at
(410) 293-6029/DSN 281 or via e-mail at adietric(at)usna.edu.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
