UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 221446Z MAY 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 128/15

SUBJ/PUBLICATION OF CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS SHORE INVESTMENT GUIDANCE//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/MAY//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the publication of the Chief of Naval 
Operations Shore Investment Guidance.  An electronic copy of the document is 
available for download at http://www.cnic.navy.mil.

2.  As our warfighting missions evolve, the Navy*s shore installations must 
continue to provide the platform to train and prepare our Sailors, deploy our 
ships and aircraft, and support our military families.

3.  In our attempts to support our manpower and personnel budget, fund 
current and routine operations, and build the future Navy to respond to 
contingencies, we have deferred shore infrastructure investments.  We must 
continue to carefully and deliberately balance the risk we are taking in our 
Shore enterprise.  Chronic underinvestment in our shore infrastructure will 
take an untenable toll on our ability to support deploying forces.  To ensure 
our Shore infrastructure is mission-ready, resilient, sustainable and in 
synch with the Fleet, the following efforts will be implemented in support of 
our tenets of Warfighting First, Operate Forward, and Be Ready.

4.  Warfighting First.  We must be judicious in our use of limited resources 
as we sustain mission-capable installations and Shore programs integral to 
our future vision.  Budget priorities compel us to make choices in facility 
investment -- even at public Naval Shipyards and Flagship Institutions.  We 
will:
    a.  Implement a Facility Condition Index and a Component-level Condition 
Index for all shore facilities by the end of FY15.  These improved metrics 
will provide a better understanding of facility readiness through an 
objective assessment of risk.
    b.  Transition to a condition-based maintenance program across all Navy 
buildings by the end of FY16 and all utilities and remaining structures by 
the end of FY17.  This will enable us to focus resources on specific building 
components and systems where failure jeopardizes life or a warfighting 
mission.
    c.  Increase combat capability for the warfighter by executing our Navy 
Energy Strategy ashore.  We will continue our efforts to achieve energy 
security by reducing consumption of shore energy 50% by 2020, increasing our 
use of renewable energy, and transforming our culture through energy 
awareness and education.
    d.  Reduce our overall Shore footprint by demolishing or divesting 
unneeded facilities and recapitalize existing facilities in lieu of new 
construction.  If we must construct new facilities, resource sponsors shall 
program demolition at a 2-for-1 ratio.

5.  Operate Forward.  Every major acquisition program and infrastructure 
decision involves requirements for the Shore that must be aligned with how 
and where we train, operate, and maintain.  To effectively and efficiently 
operate forward, we will:
    a.  Apply *austere criteria* wherever and whenever practical -- 
minimizing the infrastructure, footprint, and finishes required to meet the 
mission in the proposed operating environment.
    b.  Implement Strategic Laydown decisions by leveraging *bases* and 
*places* where our allies and partners allow us to use their facilities.  
Where investment overseas is required, we will seek opportunities to cost-
share with the joint force, our allies, and our partners.
    c.  Support the needs of our Combatant Commanders within fiscal 
constraints when the Navy is designated the Lead Service and has the 
preponderance of mission.

6.  Be Ready.  Our bases and *places* enable and facilitate Navy operations 
around the globe.  This infrastructure directly supports ongoing missions, 
but it also fulfills its traditional role: of ensuring our Sailors, 
Civilians, and Families remain prepared, confident, and proficient.  To 
support this role, we will:
    a.  Strengthen the resilience of critical assets and their supporting 
infrastructure against physical and cyber threats. Owners and operators of 
critical assets will collaborate with installation leadership to take 
proactive steps to identify threats and manage risk.
    b.  CNIC and NAVFAC will review mission assurance and asset management 
processes to create a single measure of *facility criticality* capable of 
supporting investment prioritization for POM-18 deliberations.
    c.  Prioritize the security and reliability of our nuclear weapons 
facilities.  In doing so, we will resource strategic weapons 
sustainment/recapitalization and accelerate shipyard infrastructure 
improvements to ensure long-term health of these critical facilities.
    d.  Prioritize all recapitalization and military construction using the 
Shore Mission Integration Group (SMIG).  As the single forum for reconciling 
Fleet/Provider and Shore requirements, the SMIG will validate infrastructure 
solutions for capability gaps, optimally time our investments, aggressively 
reduce our shore footprint, and respond to budget uncertainties in an agile 
manner.

7.  The Shore Triad -- OPNAV N4, Navy Installations Command, and Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command -- will use this document to guide 
requirements and make decisions to deliver an innovative, resilient, and 
sustainable future shore structure in support of the Fleet, Fighter, and 
Family.  This guidance will be revised by ONPAV N4 should conditions warrant.

8.  Released by VADM P. H. Cullom, N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
