UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 271108Z AUG 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 200/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/ORDER TO UPDATE NAVY FAMILY ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM 
PERSONAL CONTACT INFORMATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST/23OCT14//
AMPN/REF A is OPNAVINST 3006.1, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with 
Catastrophic Events.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the semi-annual requirement for all Navy 
Military and Civilian Personnel to update/verify their personal information 
in the Navy Family Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS) no later than 
30 September 2019.  If a record has been updated in the system between 1 
April 2019 and 30 September 2019, that record is considered validated for the 
30 September 2019 deadline.
    a.  NFAAS is the system utilized by the Navy to  account for personnel 
and their families during widespread natural or man-made disasters.
    b.  Accurate contact information of personnel and family members is 
required to facilitate a quick and accurate muster of personnel in affected 
areas.

2.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy personnel, uniformed 
(Active Duty and Reserve), Navy civilians, and Outside Continental United 
States (OCONUS) contractors per the following:
    a.  It is mandatory for all military personnel to update and verify 
contact information and all categories of dependents.
    b.  It is mandatory for non-bargaining unit civilian employees to update 
their contact information.  Providing dependent's information is voluntary 
but highly encouraged.  Failure to provide dependent information may exclude 
them from receiving potential benefits, if applicable.
    c.  It is mandatory for all OCONUS contractors to update and verify 
contact information and all categories of dependents.
    d.  It is highly encouraged that bargaining unit civilian employees 
provide their contact and dependent information on a voluntary basis, until 
union notification and subsequent impact and implementation bargaining takes 
place (when applicable).  Providing contact information is critical in 
providing support to DON civilians and their dependents during the recovery 
period following a disaster.

3.  Echelon 2 Commanders, Region Commanders and Region Personnel 
Accountability Representatives will ensure widest dissemination to all 
subordinate commands, tenant commands and detachments for action as required.  
All Commanding Officers (CO)/Officers-in-Charge (OIC) will ensure 100 percent 
compliance for required personnel.  COs/OICs will also contact the human 
resources office to request applicable union notifications.  This requirement 
also includes OCONUS contractors (must enter associated Unit Identification 
Code (UIC)).
A report of those commands not in compliance with this NAVADMIN will be 
provided to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations for review.

4.  Additionally, each command will institute policies requiring personnel to 
review/update their NFAAS data as standard practice during check-in and 
check-out.  A tool is available in NFAAS to allow Commanding Officer 
Representatives (COR) to "pull" personnel into their UIC.  Military 
members/dependents must also update NFAAS in any instance in which they make 
a permanent change of address.
Civilian non-bargaining unit employees must update their contact information 
and are highly encouraged to update their dependent's information on a 
voluntary basis whenever there is a change.
Civilian bargaining unit employees are highly encouraged to update their 
information whenever there is a change.

5.  To update contact data, access the NFAAS website at 
https://navyfamily.navy.mil.  Login and update member information under the 
"My Info" tab, "Contact Information" section, and update sponsor's work 
location information.  Update family member information under the "My Info" 
tab, "Family Member Info" section.
Edit member and family member information as necessary and verify as current.  
Personnel are required to input their physical address; PO/APO/FPO addresses 
are not authorized.  Additionally, users must ensure that a Cell Carrier is 
selected from the applicable drop-down list.  All family members enrolled in 
the Exceptional Family Member Program must be identified as such.

6.  NFAAS can also be accessed from any mobile device web browser.
All personnel are encouraged to download the latest version of the NFAAS 
mobile app which provides cognizant resources, checklists, preparation 
guidelines, etc.  The app also provides a link to the mobile version of the 
NFAAS website.  Although the application uses the same URL address as the 
NFAAS website, when accessed via a mobile device, the site will be optimized 
to allow easy viewing and navigation.  To ensure NFAAS notifications are 
received via the app, go to the dashboard, select "Settings" and ensure the 
"Receive Notifications" option is enabled.

7.  CORs can validate contact information has been verified by using the 
Reports tab in NFAAS and selecting "Address Information Update Status Roster 
Report by UIC."  Column K contains the date the contact information was last 
updated.

8.  Points of contact:
    a.  NFAAS Help Desk at (866) 946-9183 or via e-mail at 
nfaas(at)spawar.navy.mil.
    b.  NFAAS Assistant Program Manager, Chief Isa Grace, at
(202) 433-4321 or via e-mail at isa.n.grace(at)navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral M. M. Jackson, Commander, Navy Installations 
Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
