UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 131510Z MAR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 062/15

SUBJ/A COOPERATIVE STRATEGY FOR 21ST CENTURY SEAPOWER:  FORWARD, ENGAGED, 
READY//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/MAR//

RMKS/1.  Today, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, the Commandant of the 
Coast Guard, and I released an updated version of our tri-Service maritime 
strategy, A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower: Forward, Engaged, 
Ready.

2.  Our historic naval functions*deterrence, sea control, power projection, 
and maritime security*remain timeless, but the security conditions in which 
we conduct them have changed.  Since our original strategy was released in 
2007, security threats have become more sophisticated and widespread; we face 
new and evolving violent extremist organizations like ISIL, threats from 
North Korea and Iran, a rising and assertive China, and Russian aggression.  
We also face new and evolving challenges that threaten our access in 
cyberspace and in the global commons.  Coupled with updated strategic 
guidance and our current fiscal circumstances, we were compelled to revise 
our maritime strategy.

3.  Our strategy adapts to the new world we face.  Notably, we have added a 
new essential function for naval forces:  all domain access.
This will sharpen our ability to defeat the strategies and technologies that 
would otherwise hold our forces at risk, and maintain freedom of action in 
any domain*sea, air, land, cyberspace, and the electromagnetic spectrum.  We 
also identify regional opportunities and threats to guide how and where we 
will operate, and embrace innovation and efficiency in building a modern and 
capable force to meet our national objectives. This strategy describes a Navy 
that is ready to meet and overcome the challenges of an increasingly 
dangerous world*now and for the years to come, this force is ready to fight 
and win.

4.  Combat-credible forward U.S. naval presence is vital*we must be where it 
matters, when it matters*but we must also maintain a strong commitment to our 
allies and partners.  This emphasis on partnerships is infused throughout our 
strategy, and we will continue to develop the global network of navies 
concept.  We recognize that no single nation can ensure maritime security, 
and that each country can contribute.

5.  This strategy is part of a larger Navy-wide effort to develop a strategic 
continuum which will emphasize the alignment of strategic documents, new 
concept development, coordinated messaging and engagements, iterative 
wargaming, and increased strategic linkages to the budget.  It has already 
been instrumental in aligning our budget requirements and operational 
concepts.  The strategic continuum will be further enhanced by the recent 
creation of a strategist subspecialty code that will ensure Sailors with the 
appropriate background occupy strategic billets, while generating long-term 
expertise to foster additional strategic thinking, alignment, and assessment.  
At the end of the day, we aim to invigorate the culture of strategic, 
independent, innovative thought that has led to sustained operational 
excellence.

6.  To ensure widest dissemination, the strategy, including supporting 
briefs, photos, and videos, are available for download at 
www.navy.mil/maritime.  Printed copies of the strategy will arrive at most 
Navy commands in the next few days, and additional copies can be ordered 
through the Naval Logistics Library.  Each member of our Navy should use 
these products to spur discussion and interaction amongst the Joint 
community, our various allies and partners, and our fellow citizens.  We have 
an imperative to maintain the world*s preeminent Naval forces, operating 
around the globe as America*s first line of defense.  A Cooperative Strategy 
for 21st Century Seapower will guide us into our future.

7.  Released by Admiral Jonathan W. Greenert, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#6763
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

