RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0173 2161612-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU

R 041612Z AUG 14

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/DEFENSE ANALYSIS MASTER'S DEGREE OPPORTUNITY AT NAVAL
POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL FOR SPECIAL WARFARE OPERATOR AND SPECIAL WARFARE
BOAT OPERATOR//

NAVADMIN 173/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//
REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/252059ZAPR14//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/08JAN08//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 093/14, FY-15 NAVY GRADUATE EDUCATION UPDATE.
REF B IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1306-106, TIME ON STATION (TOS) AND
RETAINABILITY/OBLIGATED SERVICE (OBLISERV).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits enlisted member applications for
enrollment in the Naval Post-Graduate School (NPS) 18-month Master
of Science in Defense Analysis program.  Per ref (a), this program
is one of many efforts to increase Naval Special Warfare's defense
analytics, and operational art capabilities and provides the
graduate with a strong background in areas of strategic analysis,
decision making, organizational theory, technological and
information revolution in military affairs, network analysis, and
advanced analytical methods for irregular warfare.  Selectees will
have the opportunity to increase their knowledge of the conflict
spectrum below general conventional warfare.  Graduates will possess
a thorough knowledge of the broad range of factors involved in the
planning and conduct of these forms of conflict and a detailed
understanding of the role of special operations and related force
in U.S. foreign and defense policy.

2.  Selectees will be assigned to NPS as full-time students under
permanent change of station (PCS) orders to Monterey, California.
Based on current projected rotation date, selectees will be
enrolled and PCS for one of the following curriculum convening
dates:  January or July 2015.  As full-time students, Sailors will
be required to carry a full academic load year-round.  Degree
requirements should be completed in 18 months and will include a
thesis or capstone project.

3.  At this time, the program is available only to active-duty
members in the special warfare operator and special warfare boat
operator ratings who meet the following criteria:
    a.  Must possess a baccalaureate degree awarded by an
institution of higher learning accredited by a regional accrediting
agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.  To meet NPS
academic requirements, performance must be above average and a
minimum academic profile code (APC) of 265 is required.  Please
refer to the NPS academic catalog for specific information on
calculating the APC.
    b.  Must be an E-7 select or above and eligible for CONUS/Shore
assignment between January and June 2015.
    c.  Selected members must complete active obligated service
(OBLISERV) requirements.  OBLISERV is computed from the NPS class
convening date.  Prior to receiving PCS orders to NPS, selected
members must OBLISERV for a period of 54 months.
        (1) If reenlistment and/or obtainment of OBLISERV prior to
transfer will cause potential monetary loss, the member may qualify
for the following OBLISERV option:
            (a) NAVPERS 1070/613, Administrative Remarks (Page 13),
(Rev. 7-06) entry in lieu of hard OBLISERV per ref (b).
    d.  Must be within physical fitness assessment (PFA) standards
with no PFA failures within the last three years.
    e.  Must have no evaluation marks below 3.0 within the last five
years.
    f.  Must hold or be eligible for a TS/SCI clearance.  Applicants
without a current clearance should work with their special security
officer to initiate the clearance request.
    g.  Must not have any civil or non-judicial punishment violation
within the past five years.
    h.  Must possess a conditional letter of acceptance.  To obtain
a conditional letter of acceptance, applicants should apply to NPS
at http://www.nps.edu/academics/admissions/applyonline/applynow.html
and select Defense Analysis, Curriculum Number 699.  Upon
application submission, Sailors must arrange for submission of a
sealed official transcript to the NPS admissions office from each
institution attended for all undergraduate and graduate education,
as well as joint services transcripts.  Sailors who are not
conditionally accepted will be notified by NPS via e-mail.

4.  Prospective applicants should contact their detailers
immediately to discuss implications for their current assignments.
Failure to do so may result in the withdrawal of selection.

5.  Eligible Sailors should forward a written request via their
commanding officer, using the below format:
    From:  [Rate, Full name, Last 4 digits of SSN]
    To:    Commanding Officer, Center for SEAL and SWCC
    Via:   [Commanding Officer]
    Subj:  Application for Enlisted Defense Analysis Master*s Degree
           Opportunity at the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS)
    Ref:   (a) [Cite this NAVADMIN]
    Encl:  (1) Copies of all undergraduate transcripts
           (2) Certified copies of the last five performance
               evaluations
           (3) Command financial screening for assignment to a high
               cost of living area without barracks and dedicated
               housing for bachelors or geographic bachelors
           (4) Member's single page statement of preparedness and
               motivation to earn a Master's degree, and future
               goals
           (5) Naval postgraduate School Conditional Letter of
               Acceptance
    1.  I request selection to earn a Master of Science in Defense
Analysis at Naval Postgraduate School.  I meet all eligibility
requirements specified in reference (a).  Enclosures (1) through (5)
are submitted to support my request.
    2.  I understand if selected for this opportunity, I shall incur
a 54-month active-duty service obligation starting from the NPS
class convening date.  If I fail to complete the required service
(voluntarily or due to misconduct), I agree to reimburse the United
States Navy for the cost of the graduate education received prorated
for the obligated time served.
    3.  Upon completion of degree requirements, I understand I will
be assigned based upon the needs of the Navy.
    4.  I can be contacted at [provide phone, e-mail and mailing
address].

6.  Commanding officer's endorsement should address member's
preparedness for this significant academic opportunity, ability to
work independently, communication skills, potential for increased
responsibilities and any special considerations.

7.  Endorsed applications can be sent via encrypted e-mail to
gina.becker(at)navsoc.socom.mil or mailed via USPS to:
    Center for SEAL and SWCC
    ATTN:  LT Gina Becker
    2546 Trident Way, BLDG 633
    San Diego, CA 92155-5493

8.  Endorsed applications must arrive to the Center for SEAL and
SWCC NLT 28 August 2014 for the January 2015 class start and NLT
1 February 2015 for the July 2015 class start.

9.  Selectees will be notified by their chain of command.  Due to
the highly competitive nature of this program, selectees must accept
or rescind within five working days following notification.

10.  General information about NPS can be found at www.nps.edu.

11.  Point of contacts are LT Gina Becker at (619) 537-2833 or via
e-mail at gina.becker(at)navsoc.socom.mil or LCDR Scott Harris at
(901) 874-2858 or via e-mail at scott.e.harris(at)navy.mil.

12.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or
28 February 2015, whichever occurs first.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0173
NNNN

