UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 231258Z AUG 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 196/19

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/AUG//

SUBJ/CNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET//

RMKS/1.  I am humbled and honored to be your Chief of Naval Operations.  
Together, we are part of the greatest Navy in the world.  Everyone on our 
team - Officers and Enlisted Sailors, Active and Reserve, Uniformed and 
Civilian - plays an important part in making sure we not only remain the 
greatest Navy in the world, but that we get even better.

2.  For the first time in a very long time, we face serious challenges at sea 
around the world.  For decades, we have taken for granted that no other blue-
water navy would dare take us on.  That’s no longer true.

3.  The U.S. Navy will continue to be a global force for security and 
stability.  But there are other nations who would use their maritime forces 
to threaten the freedom of the seas, to intimidate their neighbors, or to 
coerce others in violation of international law.  Those maritime forces are 
growing in numbers and in strength.  Still others know they cannot take us on 
at sea, but will try to attack our Navy in areas like cyber.

4.  Rapidly modernizing our Navy and keeping pace with technology will remain 
a priority for us.  However, I still believe what my first Chief told me:  
that people are our most important weapons system.  A well-trained force is 
our competitive advantage.  I look forward to hearing your feedback to make 
improvements for Sailors and their families.

5.  I have a great sense of urgency to get after solutions to the challenges 
we face.  In the coming weeks, my FIRST priority will be visiting with many 
of you.  I will work with our leaders in the fleets, with our Marine Corps 
teammates, and with our other joint service and international partners as we 
develop our way ahead to meet these challenges.

6.  We will question our assumptions.  We will think differently about the 
competition we are now in.  We will be the Navy the nation needs now and we 
will build the Navy the nation needs to fight and win in the future.

7.  What remains constant are our core values of honor, courage and 
commitment.  We will remain true to our core attributes of integrity, 
accountability, initiative and toughness.  We will remain the premier Navy in 
the world and I know we will be even better tomorrow than we are today.

8.  Further detailed guidance will be issued within 45 days.

9.  Thank you for all you do for our Navy and for each other.  I’ll see you 
out in the fleet.

10.  Released by ADM M. M. Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

