UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 191834Z OCT 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 232/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/THE NAVY CIVILIAN WORKFORCE FRAMEWORK //

REF/A/DOC/THE NAVY CIVILIAN WORKFORCE FRAMEWORK/11OCT16//

AMPN/REF A IS A CNO LETTER, SUBJ:  THE NAVY CIVILIAN WORKFORCE FRAMEWORK.//

RMKS/1.  The Navy's Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority, highlights 
that "We must strengthen the role of Navy leaders in leading and managing 
Navy civilians as key contributors to the mission effectiveness of our Navy 
Team."  The Navy's mission depends not only on our Sailors, but also on our 
civilians who provide critical technical expertise, continuity of knowledge 
and experience, and diversity of perspective.  Every Navy military and 
civilian member is responsible for, accountable for, and contributes to our 
warfighting effectiveness.

2.  We are one unified Navy team and must continue to create a climate of 
operational excellence that will keep us ready to prevail in all future 
challenges.  We are fully committed to all members of our team - military and 
civilian - and will continue to strengthen our culture of diversity, 
integration, and inclusion.  We must foster an environment of continuous 
learning by providing education, training and development opportunities to 
our civilian workforce to execute mission requirements.

3.  The Navy Civilian Workforce Framework provides the foundation for our 
efforts over the next year and beyond.
This will take time and deliberate action.  We are committed, and will 
deliberately assess our progress in achieving the goals, adjusting as efforts 
are completed and ensuring we are attaining the desired results.

4.  Our civilian career path model will be guided by four goals:
    a.  First, we will have an integrated military-civilian team, with the 
best people in the right jobs, all with a clear focus on the Navy mission.
    b.  Next, Navy civilian workforce education, training and development 
opportunities will support career progression and growth.
    c.  Third, we will work for continual improvement in all stages of the 
civilian workforce career path.
    d.  Finally, a governance mechanism will oversee progress and ensure a 
Navy-wide perspective.

5.  As Navy leaders, our knowledge of the Navy Civilian Workforce, personal 
commitment to its stated goals and active involvement in its execution are 
critical to achieving the desired results.  Our dedicated efforts and talent 
will ensure the proper leadership and environment to ensure success.

6.  All Echelon II and Echelon III Commands are requested to develop a plan 
to support each of the goals outlined in reference (a).  A Civilian Workforce 
Advisory Board, made up of selected civilian and military leaders, will 
examine the collected input, address common issues across commands, share 
best practices and lessons learned, advise me on Navy-wide initiatives and 
assess the effectiveness of the Framework.
Command input will be delivered to OPNAV N1 by 15 December 2016.
OPNAV N1 and the Civilian Workforce Advisory Board will work with each 
command to understand their respective efforts and will consolidate command 
inputs into an integrated Navy Implementation Plan by 1 February 2017.  This 
integrated plan will support a Navy-wide enterprise perspective to help 
ensure we are collectively institutionalizing this Framework.  Echelon II and 
Echelon III Commands will then be accountable for the execution of their 
respective plans and report on the status of their efforts quarterly to the 
Civilian Workforce Advisory Board.

7.  Point of contact is Ms. Anne Davis, OPNAV N1, at
(703) 604-7126/DSN 664 or via e-mail at anne.davis(at)navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Admiral J. M. Richardson, CNO.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
