UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 111245Z JUL 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 168/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N09/JUL//

SUBJ/COLLATERAL DUTIES//

RMKS/1. In a continuous effort to reduce administrative overhead, we recently 
reviewed duties onboard selected Fleet units and identified seven shipboard 
collateral duties that will be eliminated immediately with minimal impact to 
mission: Athletics Officer, Library Officer, Health Benefits Advisor, 
Community Relations Project Officer, Enlisted Safety Committee (Safety Petty 
Officers have not been eliminated, but the Committee will be combined into 
the Safety Council), Knowledge Management Officer, and Voting Officer.  
Effective today these collateral duties are no longer required. Updates to 
policies and instructions will be forthcoming.

2. We are not done with this effort. Overall, the goal is to remove burden 
from Sailors, allow more time to focus on core warfighting, and evaluate our 
Sailors first and foremost on performance and value in primary duties. This 
initiative is not about removing all collateral duties or titles wholesale, 
but is instead to look at what demands we are putting on ships/squadrons by 
instruction and policy that distract from core warfighting. There are duties 
not specified to a billet or office that remain very important; we are after 
those that are trivial, have outlived their usefulness, are implicit in 
primary billet descriptions, or should be temporary only (at command 
discretion to put talent to task when needed).

3. To achieve this intended outcome, the Master Chief Petty Officer of the 
Navy (MCPON) will lead a working group effort to conduct a comprehensive 
review of all collateral duties. MCPON will report his findings via Fleet 
leadership directly to the Chief of Naval Operations later this summer.

4. Please lend your voice to this effort directly by identifying outdated or 
redundant duties for the working group and leadership to consider; especially 
those duties whose principal function is administrative in nature and 
distract time and energy from core warfighting. Our focus must be on war 
fighting, on lethality and on being the most capable Navy we can be. Submit 
your feedback at: www.navy.mil/RAD

5. Released by ADM W. F. Moran, Vice Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
