UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 031759Z JAN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 003/17

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/ENLISTED CYBER MASTERS DEGREE OPPORTUNITY AT NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/30JAN07//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.8A, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS (SRB) 
PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits enlisted member applications for enrollment 
in the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) 12-month Master of Science in Applied 
Cyber Operations.  This program is one of many efforts to increase cyber 
capabilities for the Navy while building a professional cyber workforce.

2.  Selectees will be assigned to Navy-funded education as full-time students 
under permanent change of station orders to Monterey, CA with either a 
September 2017 or March 2018 start.  As full-time students, Sailors will be 
required to carry a full academic load year-round.  Degree requirements 
should be completed in 12 months and will include a capstone project.

3.  This program is only available to active-duty and Full-Time Support 
members in the Information Systems Technician and Cryptologic Technician-
Networks ratings who meet the following criteria:
     a.  Must already possess a Bachelor of Science degree in a relevant 
technical field including, but not limited to, computer science, electrical 
engineering, and information or engineering technology.  The degree must have 
been awarded by an institution of higher learning accredited by a regional 
accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.  To meet 
NPS academic requirements, performance in technical courses, including 
mathematics, must be exemplary.  The Academic Profile Code (APC) for this 
program is 344 (minimum 2.20 GPA, Calculus for Business/Social Sciences with 
a grade of C or better, and one calculus based Physics course with a minimum 
grade of C).  Please refer to the NPS academic catalog for specific 
information on calculating the APC.
     b.  Must be an E6 or above eligible for CONUS/shore assignment between 
April and December 2017 for the September 2017 start or between October 2017 
and June 2018 for the March 2018 start.
     c.  Must be eligible to incur a 5-year active-duty service obligation by 
reenlistment or extension of enlistment prior to NPS enrollment.  Selectees 
will be required to reenlist more than 1-year earlier if they are unable to 
satisfy the 5-year obligated service requirement with an aggregate of 48 or 
fewer months of extensions. An extension will become binding upon enrollment 
at NPS.  Pursuant to reference (a), payment of the selective reenlistment 
bonus is not authorized for selectees who reenlist for the purpose of meeting 
the obligated service requirement.
     d.  Must be within physical fitness assessment (PFA) standards with no 
PFA failures within the last three years.
     e.  Must have no evaluation marks below 3.0 within the last 5-years.
     f.  Must hold or be eligible for a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented 
Information (TS/SCI) clearance.  Applicants without a current TS/SCI 
clearance are still encouraged to apply, but should work with their Special 
Security Office to initiate the clearance request.  Orders to NPS will not be 
issued until TS/SCI clearance is finalized.
     g.  Must possess a conditional letter of acceptance.  To obtain a 
conditional letter of acceptance, Sailors should apply to NPS at 
http://www.nps.edu/academics/admissions/applyonline/applynow.html. Once 
registered, Sailors should select applied cyber operations, curriculum number 
336.  Upon application submission, Sailors must arrange for submission of 
official transcripts to the NPS admissions office from each institution 
attended for all undergraduate and graduate education, as well as all 
Sailor/Marine American Council on Education Registry Transcripts or Joint 
Services Transcripts. Applications must be submitted to NPS no later than 20 
March 2017. Sailors who are not conditionally accepted will be notified by 
NPS via e-mail.

4.  Upon selection, member must request (via command career counselor) an in-
rate quota in the Career Waypoints (CWAY) System. Those members not in their 
CWAY window should submit a "special circumstance" application indicating 
reason code of "other" and the career counselor will be prompted to add a 
note indicating selection to the Master of Science in Applied Cyber 
Operations Program.  If selected via "special circumstance" application, this 
program does not guarantee awarding of an in-rate CWAY quota and is not 
considered part of an individual's performance indicator in the CWAY process.

5.  Prospective applicants should contact their detailers immediately to 
discuss implications for their current assignments. Failure to do so may 
result in the withdrawal of selection. Graduation from this program will 
impact future detailing availability.

6.  Applications can be sent via encrypted e-mail to 
curtis.bogetto(at)navy.mil.

7.  Eligible Sailors should forward a written request via their commanding 
officer, using the format below no later than 17 April 2017:

    From:  (Rank, Full Name, Last 4 Digits of SSN)
    To:    Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Information
           Warfare/Director of Naval Intelligence) (N2N6)
    Via:   Commanding Officer
    Subj:  Application for Enlisted Cyber Master's Degree
           Opportunity at Naval Postgraduate School
    Ref:   (a) Cite this NAVADMIN
    Encl:  (1) Copies of all undergraduate transcripts
           (2) Certified copies of the last four performance
               evaluations
           (3) Command financial screening for assignment to a high
               cost of living area without barracks or dedicated
               housing for bachelors or geographic bachelors
           (4) Member's single page statement of preparedness and
               motivation to earn a master's degree, and future
               goals
           (5) NPS conditional letter of acceptance
    1.  I request selection to earn a Master of Science in Applied
    Cyber Operations for a September 2017 (or March 2018) start:  I
    meet all eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).
    Enclosures (1) through (5) are submitted to support my request.
    2.  I understand that if selected for this opportunity, I shall
    incur a 5-year active-duty service obligation upon enrollment
    at NPS.  If I fail to complete the required service (voluntarily
    or due to misconduct), I agree to reimburse the U.S. for the
    cost of the graduate education received, prorated for the
    obligated time served.
    3.  Upon completion of degree requirements, I understand I will
    be assigned based upon the needs of the Navy.  Priority will be
    given to cyber technical and operational requirements at the
    National Security Agency, U.S. Fleet Cyber Command/TENTH Fleet,
    Navy Information Operations Command, and Navy Cyber Defense
    Operations Command.
    4.  I can be contacted at (Provide phone, personal and work e-
    mail, and mailing address).

8.  The endorsement of the commanding officer should address the preparedness 
of members for this significant academic opportunity, ability to work 
independently, communication skills, potential for increased responsibilities 
and any special considerations.

9.  Prior application submissions to this program do not disqualify a Sailor 
from applying.  However, applicants who did not receive conditional 
acceptance from NPS and have no additional academic qualifications should not 
apply again as the academic standards have not changed.

10.  Selection results will be disseminated via NAVADMIN.  Due to the highly 
competitive nature of this program, notification of selection via NAVADMIN is 
a binding commitment that selectees must accept or decline within five 
working days following release of the message.

11.  General information about NPS can be found at www.nps.edu.

12.  Point of contact is Mr. Curtis Bogetto at (703) 604-6289/DSN 664 or via 
e-mail at curtis.bogetto(at)navy.mil.

13.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 June 2018, 
whichever occurs first.

14.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
