RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1502225-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 302225Z MAY 13 PSN 835721K26
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS//N01040//
NAVADMIN 150/13
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 

SUBJ/CAREER NAVIGATOR PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT-PART II// 

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/302127ZMAY13 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/010019ZFEB13// 
REF/C/DOC/NAVPERSCOM/24APR13// 
REF/D/MSG/COMNAVRESFOR NORFOLK VA/221501ZJUN12//NOTAL// 
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091715ZSEP12// 
REF/F/DOC/OPNAV/30JAN07// 
REF/G/DOC/DODI/12MAR13// 
REF/H/DOC/N13/28FEB13//NOTAL// 
REF/I/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/110033ZJUL09// 
REF/J/DOC/NAVPERSCOM/16JUL12// 
REF/K/DOC/OPNAV/02JAN13// 
REF/L/DOC/OPNAV/1JUL12// 
REF/M/DOC/NAVPERSCOM/13SEP06// 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 149/13, CAREER NAVIGATOR PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT PART I.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 021/13, FLEET RATING IDENTIFICATION ENGINE - PERFORM TO 
SERVE CHANGES.  REF C IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1160-030, CERTAIN ENLISTMENTS AND 
REENLISTMENTS UNDER CONTINUOUS SERVICE CONDITIONS.  REF D IS COMNAVRESFOR 
021/12 FLEET RATING IDENTIFICATION ENGINE (FLEET RIDE) FOR SELECTED RESERVE 
(SELRES) ROLLOUT.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 274/12, ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE NAVY ENLISTED 
RESERVE COMPONENT TO ACTIVE COMPONENT AUGMENTATION PROGRAM.  REF F IS 
OPNAVINST 1160.8A, SELECTIVE REENLISTMENT BONUS (SRB) PROGRAM.  REF G IS 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 1304.31, ENLISTED BONUS PROGRAM. 
REF H IS ESRP POLICY MEMORANDUM.  REF I IS NAVADMIN 203/09, POST 9-11 GI BILL, 
RESERVE EDUCATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (REAP) AND MGIB-SR TRANSFERABILITY 
POLICY.  REF J IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1326-021 NAVY ENLISTED RESERVE COMPONENT 
(RC) TO ACTIVE COMPONENT (AC) AUGMENTATION PROGRAM (RC2AC).  REF K IS 
SEPARATION PAY FOR INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE DUTY.  REF L IS 
MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1160-120 HIGH YEAR TENURE (HYT).  REF M IS MILPERSMAN 
ARTICLE 1440-010 CHANGE IN RATING AUTHORIZATION//.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces Part II of a two part message announcing the 
Career Navigator Program.  Ref (a) announced the Career Navigator Program as 
part of a fundamental shift and an important change to how we do business in 
enlisted career management-putting Sailors at the helm to navigate their 
careers.  
This NAVADMIN provides greater detail on the major changes, upgrades, 
initiatives and execution of the Career Navigator Program.  Both NAVADMINs 
should be read in their entirety, considered a one source document and kept 
readily available for use by All Hands.  The goal of Career Navigator is to 
help Sailors make informed decisions about their personal and professional 
career opportunities by placing the power of Navy career management systems at 
their fingertips.  Changes to enlisted career management under the Career 
Navigator Program will be incremental.  

2.  Major changes, upgrades and execution in support of the Career Navigator 
Program include the following areas:
    a.  AC/FTS reenlistment process updates, 
    b.  AC PACT Sailor Rating Designation updates,   
    c.  SELRES Rating Conversion process updates, and
    d. SELRES RC2AC/FTS augmentation process updates.  

3.  AC/FTS reenlistment process updates.  Navy has made significant progress 
in achieving balance across all enlisted ratings.  In 2011, there were 35 
overmanned ratings representing over 6,000 Sailors; today Navy has only 9 
ratings overmanned with less than 800 Sailors.  
Improvements in advancement rates and reenlistment approvals are a result of 
this improved balance.  Navy continually adjusts the number of Sailors needed 
in each rating to meet current and future mission requirements.  The Career 
Waypoint-Reenlistment process (formerly Fleet RIDE-Perform to Serve (PTS)) 
helps ensure the Navy has the right number of Sailors in each rating based on 
mission requirements.  
In response to fleet feedback, we dismantled PTS and created a reenlistment 
process that is more advantageous for Sailors.  This revised process is 
effective 3 June 2013. 
    a.  The reenlistment screening process is now simplified to be based on 
rank, performance evaluations and critical NECs.  In FY-14, we plan to 
completely redesign the reenlistment screening process using weighted 
performance factors.  Future Sailor Portal enhancements will provide expanded 
ability for Sailors to obtain and review their competitiveness for 
reenlistment under the new screening process when researching career 
opportunities.  Nuclear-trained personnel will continue to have the ability to 
request a reenlistment quota once eligible in a reenlistment zone.
    b.  Reenlistment for E6 Sailors.  While there is still a need to inform 
the Navy of Sailor's intentions to reenlist or separate via the Career 
Counselor, E6 Sailors who desire to reenlist and have command approval to do 
so will be given reenlistment approval on their first application.  In the 
near future, as our IT system is updated, E6 Sailors and their commands will 
receive confirmation immediately upon application submission, resulting in a 
no wait period.  Under the updated system, Nuclear-trained personnel will 
receive confirmation within 15 days of their request.
    c.  E5 and below reenlistment request processing.  Categories of skill 
sets have been created to expedite reenlistment request processing for Sailors 
E5 and below.  All eligible and command approved reenlistment E5 and below 
Sailors will receive answers about reenlistment requests earlier using these 
categories:
       (1) Open Reenlistment:  Sailors in undermanned skill sets.  All 
eligible and command approved non-Nuclear E-5 and below Sailors in open skill 
sets will receive approval to reenlist on their first application (within 
approximately 30 days).  In a near-term Career Waypoints system update 
expected by the end of FY13, these Sailors will receive confirmation 
immediately upon submittal, resulting in a no wait period.
       (2) Balanced Reenlistment:  Sailors in skill sets that are fully-
manned.  Reenlistment request processing for all eligible and command-approved 
reenlistment Sailors who are in skill sets that are fully-manned will be based 
on the manning in their year group.  
Sailors in undermanned year groups will receive approval on their first 
application and all Sailors will know at least 10 months from the end of their 
contract if they will be able to reenlist in their current rate.
       (3) Competitive Reenlistment:  Sailors in skill sets that are 
overmanned or have special requirements.  Reenlistment request processing for 
all eligible and command-approved reenlistment Sailors who are in skill sets 
that are overmanned or that have special requirements such as the Nuclear 
community will follow the timeline described in Para 5.d. below for final 
reenlistment approval prior to Soft Expiration of Active Obligated Service 
(SEAOS).  All Sailors in this category will know at least 10 months from the 
end of their contract whether they will be able to reenlist in their current 
rate.
    d.  Reenlistment requests.  Projected rotation date (PRD)-based 
reenlistment requests changes announced in ref (b) remain in effect.  
For SEAOS-based reenlistment requests, all Sailors will continue to indicate 
their intentions to reenlist or separate with their Career Counselor using 
Career Waypoints.  This career "check-in" will happen
13 months in advance of the Sailor's end of enlistment contract, one month 
earlier than previously authorized.  Sailors can still change their minds, and 
if they do, are encouraged to let their Career Counselors know as soon as 
possible.  Understanding Sailors intentions to reenlist or separate is 
critical for Navy to accurately predict how many Sailors are in each skill 
set, rating and paygrade and ensures Sailors have the maximum opportunity to 
reenlist in rate, offers opportunities for Sailors to convert to a new rating, 
or transition between the Active and Reserve Components, and improves 
advancement opportunity.  Although Sailor reenlistment approval will still be 
based on manning levels and Sailor performance, the application timeline has 
been significantly changed to make two critical improvements:  
        (1) in-rate reenlistment approval in time to review Career Management 
System Interactive Detailing (CMS-ID) opportunities, and 
        (2) increased opportunity to apply for conversion to another Rating so 
that more Sailors are retained in the Navy.
    e.  Reenlistment request timeline change.  Reenlistment requests for 
SEAOS-based applications will begin at 13 months prior to SEAOS vice 12 
months.  Sailors will now receive up to 8 looks to remain on active duty (13 
to 6 months from their SEAOS).
        (1)  Months 13/12/11/10:  During this period, Sailors submit 
reenlistment applications for active duty In-Rate, active duty conversion, or 
transition to selected reserves (SELRES), or indicate their intention to 
separate.  Limiting in-rate applications to the first four looks ensures 
Sailors receiving in-rate approvals are able to utilize the full CMS-ID order 
negotiating window during months 9 to 6.  Nuclear-trained personnel are only 
authorized to submit applications to reenlist in-rate 13 to 10 months from 
SEAOS per ref (m).
        (2)  Months 9/8/7/6:  During this period Sailors submit applications 
for rating conversion or transition to SELRES.  At this stage, active duty in-
rate applications are not authorized.  
Nuclear-trained personnel are only authorized to submit applications for 
SELRES quotas 9 to 6 months from SEAOS. 
        (3)  Months 5/4/3:  During this period Sailors may submit applications 
for transition to Selected Reserves (SELRES).  At this point, active duty in-
rate or conversion applications are not authorized.
    f.  New timeline implementation.  Career Waypoint-Reenlistment 
applications for both In-Rate and Conversion are based on the Sailor's SEAOS 
month.  Note:  In June 2013, applications are due for Sailors with both June 
and July 2014 SEAOS dates.  New application timelines are as follows:
        (1) SEAOS of November 2013 or earlier:  No impact-member has 
already received final reenlistment determination.      
        (2) SEAOS of December 2013 through June 2014:  No change-member is 
already in the application window and will continue the legacy process.
        (3) July 2014 SEAOS:  Submit initial application no later than 30 June 
2013 due to application window starting 13 months prior to SEAOS.
        (4) August 2014 or later:  Submit initial application no later than 
the last day of the month 13 months prior to SEAOS.
    g.  Reenlistment quota expiration update.  When previously executed 
extensions become operative, approved reenlistment quotas will not be 
rescinded and will continue to be valid until the 13 month expiration date.  
Working with their Command Career Counselor, Sailors in this situation are 
encouraged to contact their enlisted community manager to reset their quota 
manually until 1 August 2013 when this IT system update will go into effect.
    h.  Early reenlistment.  For AC/FT and SELRES, PERS-811 approval is no 
longer required for reenlistment greater than one year from SEAOS.  This 
change applies to all Sailors regardless of whether or not the member is 
subject to Career Waypoint-Reenlistment approval.  
Sailors are encouraged to reenlist as soon as possible provided they meet all 
other conditions for reenlistment eligibility contained in ref (c).  The term 
of the new enlistment contract must equal or exceed the period of service for 
which the Sailor is already obligated.  Sailors reenlisting under Selective 
Reenlistment Bonus
(SRB) or Enlisted Supervisor Retention Pay (ESRP) contracts or for Transfer of 
Education Benefits (TEB) under the Post 9/11 GI Bill must adhere to additional 
obligated service requirements per refs
(f) through (i).  In addition, for TEB, Sailors are reminded early 
reenlistment could interfere with transfer of those benefits.  
Review ref (i) and consult with your Career Counselor to discuss eligibility 
requirements.
    i.  Involuntary separation pay (ISP) eligibility.  A Sailor must have 
applied and been subsequently disapproved for all available Active Duty 
application cycles in order to be eligible for ISP consideration.  Denial of 
reenlistment alone does not guarantee ISP eligibility; therefore commands must 
utilize ref (k) to determine ISP eligibility.
    j.  Armed Forces Classification Test (AFCT).  Sailors desiring to expand 
their conversion choices are encouraged to take the in-service AFCT.  The most 
recent AFCT or Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) scores 
determine conversion eligibility.  
Retesting does not impact in-rate applications.

4.  AC PACT Sailor Rating Designation updates.  Effective 3 June
2013 Career Waypoint-PACT Designation (formerly Fleet RIDE-REGA) will auto-
generate partially populated applications for PACT Sailors who are Time In-
Rate (TIR) eligible for the Navy-Wide Advancement Examination (NWAE) and/or 
have at least 12 months on board their first permanent duty station.
    a.  PACT Sailors who meet TIR requirements for the NWAE will be able to 
apply for rating entry designation (RED) or NWAE quotas.  
RED quotas are preferred because Sailors are designated in the same month as 
the quota is approved.  Additionally, direct designation is advantageous for 
Sailors because it provides a career path and eligibility to participate in 
the NWAE as a rated E-3.  Sailors on this path may perform better on the NWAE, 
increasing their chances for advancement since they will have more opportunity 
to gain experience and study in their new rating prior to the exam.
    b.  Sailors who have at least 12 months on board their first permanent 
duty station following completion of their initial skills training will be 
able to apply for RED or A-school quotas. 
    c.  PACT Sailors are encouraged to research and review gapped billets on 
board their command and apply for ratings with gaps, which benefits both the 
command and the Sailor.  Most Sailors will find the opportunity to gain 
experience and study in their new rating may lead to faster promotion, which 
in turn increases competitiveness for reenlistment if desired and for 
converting to a different rating in the future.

5.  SELRES Rating Conversion process updates.  Ref (d) announced the use of 
Fleet RIDE (FR) for SELRES and the requirement to submit a qualified jobs 
listing with conversion packages.  Building on that capability, effective 3 
June 2013 applications for RC Sailors requesting a change in rating will be 
entered though Career Waypoint-Conversion (formerly RC2RC).  The rating 
conversion process for RC Sailors will be in accordance with ref (m) with the 
following
exceptions:  
    a.  Applications will be processed monthly by BUPERS-32 (SELRES
ECM) in Career Waypoints in lieu of submission through PERS-8.  
    b.  Conversion opportunities will be updated monthly and identified as 
open or closed.  In order to apply, a Sailor's current rating must be open to 
convert out and their requested rating must be open to convert in.
    c.  Application results and official letters will be available in Career 
Waypoints.  If approved for direct conversion, the letter will direct the 
Sailor's command to initiate a change of rate in NSIPS.  If conversion has 
been approved and requires an A-school, contact information and instructions 
on how to request and schedule the training will be provided.
    d.  All Sailors are encouraged to take the in-service AFCT to update their 
line scores and improve their conversion opportunities.

6.  SELRES RC2AC/FTS augmentation process updates.  RC2AC augmentation 
announced in refs (e) and (j) have been incorporated into Career Waypoints-
Transition.  Additionally, SELRES and voluntary training unit (VTU) Sailors 
can now apply for both in-rate and conversion into ratings with available AC 
and FTS quotas provided they meet program requirements.
    a.  Selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) eligibility.  SRB restrictions 
outlined in ref (j) are lifted for augmented members.  
Reserve Sailors who augment to active duty may be eligible to receive SRB 
based on current active duty SRB authorizations and their amount of continuous 
active duty service.  IAW ref (f), to be eligible for SRB Sailors must have 
completed at least 17 continuous months of active Navy service (other than 
active duty for training) but not more than 20 years of active military 
service.  
To ensure all requirements and timelines are met, visit the SRB page of the 
NPC website:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/
career/payandbenefits/N130/PAGES/N130D.aspx.
    b.  SELRES Bonus recoupment.  Reserve Sailors who received a SELRES 
Enlistment Bonus (EB) or SRB, and who augment into the AC prior to the 
completion of their SELRES bonus contract, will incur a debt for the unearned 
portion of the bonus.  Sailors in this situation are highly encouraged to 
request a remission of indebtedness from the Director, Military Personnel 
Plans and Policy (OPNAV N13) via CNRFC N1 in conjunction with submitting their 
RC2AC application.  Reserve Sailors can obtain guidance on the remission 
request process and download formatted templates from the Commander Navy 
Reserve Forces Command Reserve Enlisted incentives (N112) website at: 
https://private.navyreserve.navy.mil/cnrfc/n-codes/n1/
cnrfc_n112/sitepages/home.aspx.  In a near-term Career Waypoint system update 
expected by the end of FY-13, if applicable, bonus recoupment waiver requests 
will be automatically generated when a RC2AC/FTS application is submitted.  If 
recoupment is not waived, Sailors will not be obligated to augment.  Navy 
Reserve activity
(NRA) commanding officers (CO) must ensure members currently serving under a 
bonus agreement are aware of bonus recoupment or have an approved waiver prior 
to reenlisting on active duty.
    c.  NRA CO for members applying to RC2AC/FTS opportunities must ensure the 
following requirements are verified prior to submitting an RC2AC/FTS 
application:
        (1)  Member meets all requirements to augment to AC/FTS
including: physical, medical and dental readiness, basic enlistment 
eligibility and specific rating requirements, and HYT limits.
        (2)  Member meets requirements listed under the additional job 
requirements section of the application; required documentation must be 
scanned and sent via NMCI encrypted email to rc_to_ac(at)navy.mil.
        (3)  Member has more than 3 years until reaching HYT limits per ref 
(l), based on the member's adjusted Active Duty Service Date (ADSD).  No HYT 
waivers for AC augmentation will be authorized.  
HYT waivers will be considered for FTS augmentation and must be approved prior 
to submitting an RC2AC/FTS application.
        (4)  Member demonstrates adequate financial stability to reenlist on 
active duty and relocate.
        (5)  Members currently serving under a SELRES bonus agreement (EB or 
SRB) are aware of recoupment or have an approved remission of indebtedness 
(recoupment waiver) per Para 6.b above. 
        (6)  Application and supporting documents are complete and accurate.
    d. RC2AC/FTS application procedures:
        (1)  Determine the applicant's total active service (TAS) and the 
desired augmentation start date.  TAS includes all active service time, 
including AC or FTS service, mobilization, ADSW, ADT, AT, CANREC, and 
voluntary recall.  Do not include drills (Inactive duty for training (IDT), 
inactive duty training for travel (IDTT), or funeral honors) in TAS.  Once TAS 
and desired start month are entered, the Career Waypoints system will 
calculate ADSD, adding the inclusive day, and determine the member's year 
group. Commands are highly encouraged to contact PERS-9 for assistance with 
TAS computations.  
Miscalculations may result in an incorrect listing of Sailor AC/FTS 
opportunities.  TAS will be verified as part of the application review 
process; applications with incorrect TAS computations will be returned as 
disapproved.
        (2)  Using Career Waypoints, determine if RC2AC/FTS opportunity exists 
for the applicant. 
        (3)  Include information in the application notes section for members 
with the following conditions:  Under stop-loss; identified for mobilization 
or presidential selected reserve call-up (PSRC); serving in a rating listed as 
a Navy Reserves enlisted career management objectives (ECMO) category 1; 
serving in an advanced paygrade (APG), Navy Reserve accession course personnel 
who have not completed their IDT requirements; serving in a temporary rating, 
or pending adverse information.
        (4)  Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit an updated resume 
documenting civilian work experience as part of their application. 
        (5)  RC2AC/FTS applications are due NLT 2359 central time, the last 
calendar day of each month.  Application processing will begin on the first 
work day of each month.  Incomplete applications will be denied.  
        (6)  Once an application is submitted enter mobilization availability 
status (MAS) Code ACR (pending/approved conditional
release) in NSIPS.
        (7)  Applications given an approved-pending status require additional 
documentation (described in the notes section).  Requested documentation must 
be scanned and emailed to the ECM via NMCI encrypted email.  If documents are 
not received within 60 days of approved-pending notification, the application 
may be changed to denied.
        (8)  If approved, the member has permission to reenlist and will be 
expected to negotiate orders expeditiously by contacting their respective 
rating detailer.  Members approved for augmentation must reenlist for a 
minimum of 48 months, unless otherwise specified by the enlisted community 
Managers.  The Sailor's NRA CO must ensure reenlistment is documented in the 
correct component (e.g., branch
class:  11 for AC; branch class:  32, SPI code:  "V" for FTS).
    e.  In addition to advertisement through the Career Waypoints system, 
augmentation opportunities will continue to be advertised through the 
government delivery (GOV-delivery) system.  
    f.  Additional RC2AC/FTS program information, including step by step 
application instructions, can be found at the NPC RC2AC/FTS web page at: 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/career/
reservepersonnelmgmt/enlisted/pages/enlistedreservistopportunities.aspx. 
    g.  SELRES members currently on mobilization orders are unable to submit 
an application in Career Waypoints; contact the BUPERS-32 RC2AC/ FTS 
coordinator at rc_to_ac(at)navy.mil within 90 days of 
demobilization to determine if an augmentation opportunity exists.   

7.  Unless specifically changed by this NAVADMIN and ref (a), all other 
enlisted career management policies remain in effect.  

8.  Points of contact:  For questions concerning these policy updates and the 
new Career Navigator Program implementation procedures contact the Navy 
Personnel Command call center at 1(866)U-ASK-NPC,
1(866)827-5672 or via e-mail at cscmailbox(at)navy.mil Career Waypoints help 
desk at (901) 874-2102 or via e-mail at 
career_waypoints_help_desk(at)navy.mil.  Additional information can be found 
on the NPC website in the Career Navigator toolbox.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral S. R. Van Buskirk, N1.//

BT
#2425
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

