UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 112139Z SEP 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N3N5//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N3N5//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N3N5/SEP// 

NAVADMIN 241/17

SUBJ/2017-2018 NAVY INFLUENZA VACCINATION AND REPORTING POLICY//

REF/A/INST/DOD/9JUN2014//

REF/B/MEMO/OASD (HA)/4APR2008//

REF/C/DOC/32 CFR PART 199.21/1DEC2016//

NARR/REF A IS THE DODI 6025.19 INDIVIDUAL MEDICAL READINESS ADDRESSING 
RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES FOR MONITORING AND ON INDIVIDUAL MEDICAL 
READINESS. REF B IS THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS 
MEMO MANDATING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
(DOD) CIVILIAN HEALTHCARE WORKER INFLUENZA IMMUNIZATIONS. REF C IS
32 CFR PART 199.21, CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED 
SERVICES (CHAMPUS)/TRICARE: TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PROGRAM// POC/LCDR 
JAIME VEGA/LOC: WASH DC/(703) 681-5467/
EMAIL: JAIME.VEGA2.MIL(AT)MAIL.MIL//

RMKS/1. Influenza or "flu" has the potential to adversely impact Navy force 
readiness and mission execution.  The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention estimates that influenza has resulted in between 9.2 million and 
35.6 million illnesses; between 140,000 and
710,000 hospitalizations; and between 12,000 and 56,000 deaths annually since 
2010 in the United States.

2.  Influenza vaccination and reporting.
    a.  Influenza Disease Prevention. Vaccination is the primary method to 
reduce risk of influenza by enhancing force immunity.
Maintaining a clean work environment, good hygiene practices, and managing 
workforce exposure (e.g., social distancing, tele-working, and sick leave) 
are effective methods to reduce the risk of spreading influenza.
    b.  Influenza Vaccine. Only injectable vaccine will be available for the 
2017-2018 influenza season.
    c.  Influenza Vaccine Priority. U.S. Navy ships and fleet assets have 
been identified by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) as a vaccine priority 
group for the 2017-2018 influenza season.
    d.  Influenza Vaccine Requisitions.  Vaccine Information and Logistics 
System (VIALS) is the online requisition system for seasonal influenza 
vaccines. VIALS is used to electronically track requisitioned vaccines via 
Military Standard Requisitioning and Issuing Procedures, and simplify vaccine 
requisitions to enable electronic tracking of vaccine orders from requisition 
to receipt.
The VIALS web site is Common Access Card enabled.
Please visit:  https://gov_only.nmlc.med.navy.mil/int_code03/vials/.
    e.  Influenza Vaccine Ordering. Navy influenza vaccine is batch-ordered 
by Naval Medical Logistics Command (NAVMEDLOGCOM) from the DLA using command 
requirements in VIALS.  Navy influenza vaccine is centrally funded.
    f.  Influenza Vaccine Shipping. The vaccine shipping schedule is 
Monday/Friday to Outside the Contiguous United States locations and 
Monday/Tuesday/Wednesday to Contiguous United States locations to ensure same 
day receipt is available on the receiving end. DLA Troop Support Medical 
(DLA-TSM) does not ship on holidays or weekends, and will only ship on 
Thursdays on a case-by-case basis.
    g.  Influenza Vaccine Integrity:
        (1) Active Duty Commands. All Influenza vaccine shipments will arrive 
with temperature monitors. Monitors must be returned to the DLA-TSM cold 
chain office, regardless of alarm status.
Temperature monitors must be shipped per the provided instructions and 
shipping envelopes.
            (a) No Alarm Status. Units have 72 hours (three business working 
days) from the time of receipt of vaccine to document, administer, and report 
vaccination.  The 72-hour requirement begins immediately only if the 
temperature monitor is a no alarm upon receipt.
            (b) Alarmed Status. Do not administer vaccine; suspend the 
vaccine in your refrigerator, as instructed.  Return the temperature monitor, 
along with the completed instruction sheet, to DLA-TSM for approval or 
disapproval to use the vaccine. The 72-hour requirement does not begin until 
the vaccine has been cleared for use by DLA-TSM.
        (2) Reserve Component Commands. Because Reserve Component Command 
schedules vary, shipment dates must be coordinated to arrive the week of a 
drill weekend.  All shipments will arrive with temperature monitors.  
Monitors must be returned to the DLA-TSM cold chain office, regardless of 
alarm status.  Temperature monitors must be shipped per the provided 
instructions and shipping envelope.
            (a) No Alarm Status. Units have one drill weekend from the time 
of receipt of vaccine to document, administer, and report vaccination.  The 
one drill weekend requirement begins immediately only if the temperature 
monitor is a no alarm upon receipt.
            (b) Alarmed Status. Do not administer vaccine; suspend the 
vaccine in your refrigerator, as instructed.  Return the temperature monitor, 
along with the completed instruction sheet, to DLA-TSM for approval or 
disapproval to use the vaccine.  Reserve units will have one drill weekend 
from the time the vaccine is cleared for use by DLA-TSM.
    h.  Influenza Vaccine Exercise. Previous influenza seasons have been used 
to exercise and evaluate mass vaccination scenarios.
These coordinated mass vaccination campaigns provide rapid and efficient 
vaccinations to protect the maximum number of susceptible persons.  Based on 
lessons learned, process improvements are made to delivery and reporting 
procedures.
    i.  Influenza Vaccination Compliance.
        (1) Navy Military Personnel. The seasonal influenza vaccination is 
mandatory for all DoD uniformed personnel who are not medically or 
administratively exempt, per reference (a).  Any refusal to receive the 
influenza vaccine will constitute a failure to obey a lawful order and may be 
punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and/or result in 
administrative action. Prior to receiving the influenza vaccine, Navy 
Active/Reserve Component personnel shall have access to healthcare providers 
to discuss objections or concerns with influenza vaccination.  Commands 
should consult with the servicing Staff Judge Advocate General for additional 
guidance on influenza vaccination non-compliance.
        (2) Navy Civilian Personnel. Mandatory influenza vaccination is a 
condition of employment for all civilian health care workers providing direct 
patient care in DoD medical treatment facilities (MTF), per reference (b). 
Influenza vaccination is mandatory for all civilians where it is written in 
their position description as a condition of employment. Other Navy civilian 
personnel are highly encouraged to receive influenza vaccinations.
        (3) TRICARE Beneficiaries. Reference (c) authorizes retail network 
pharmacies to administer the seasonal influenza vaccine.
TRICARE beneficiaries may receive influenza vaccination with no co-pay at 
authorized retail network pharmacies offering vaccines.
Beneficiaries are encouraged to contact the pharmacy regarding age 
restrictions as some pharmacies do not administer the influenza vaccine to 
individuals less than 18 years of age.
    j.  Influenza Vaccination Reporting. Active and Reserve Component Navy 
force vaccination administration compliance will be monitored via the Medical 
Readiness Reporting System (MRRS).
Designated command personnel will access MRRS to track their personnel to 
ensure compliance.
        (1) Commands will request access to MRRS based on their unit 
identification code by submitting a system access authorization request 
available at:
https://mrrs.sscno.nmci.navy.mil/mrrs/secure/welcome.m
(note:  MRRS web address is case sensitive).
Point of contact/MRRS program office/email: mrrspo(at)navy.mil/
(800) 537-4617/(504) 697-7070/ DSN: 647-7070.
        (2) Commands must ensure that documentation of influenza vaccine 
administration is coded to accurately reflect the injectable type of vaccine 
given.
        (3) Afloat units will enter influenza immunizations into the 
Shipboard Automated Medical System/Theater Medical Information Program for 
subsequent transfer to MRRS.
        (4) All personnel who receive the vaccination from a retail network 
pharmacy must provide documentation of vaccination to the command no later 
than the next duty or drill day to ensure compliance is appropriately 
recorded in MRRS.
        (5) Units have 72 hours from the time of receipt of vaccine to 
document, administer, and report vaccination. If the 72 hour requirement 
cannot be met, unit situation reports will be submitted to the respective 
Immediate Superior in Command and Type Commanders.
Situation reports are not required if the temperature monitor is in alarmed 
status and the unit is merely awaiting disposition from DLA-TSM.
    k.  Navy Goals and Performance Standards.
        (1) All Navy operational units and MTFs will administer the
2017-2018 influenza vaccination to meet the 90 percent vaccination goal by 15 
December 2017 for Active and Reserve Component, and 100 percent vaccine 
access total for Navy family (includes dependents, other beneficiaries, and 
Department of the Navy civilians). Active coordination between command 
leadership, public affairs officers, and medical personnel is necessary to 
achieve success.
        (2) Influenza Vaccination Performance Standards. The following 
metrics will be monitored:
            (a) Navy VIALS reports 100 percent of shipped vaccine received on 
board by fleet and Navy units by 1 December 2017.
            (b) MRRS reports 90 percent of Active and Reserve Component 
vaccinated by 15 December 2017. Commands will coordinate with the servicing 
MTF to align command-wide vaccinations with Navy vaccination goals.  Medical 
personnel at servicing MTFs will expeditiously report vaccinations in MRRS.

3. Released by VADM A. L. Lewis, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans and Strategy (N3/N5)//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
