UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 042110Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 080/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/BATTLE OF MIDWAY COMMEMORATION PLANNING ORDER//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/21DEC2012OPNAVINST 5726.8A//
AMPN/REF A IS THE OPNAVINST 5726.8A OUTREACH:  AMERICA'S NAVY//

RMKS/1.  June 2017 will mark the 75th anniversary of the Navy's and the 
Nation's most historically significant naval victory.  The Battle of Midway 
(BOM) occurred 3-7 June 1942 and changed the tide of war in the Pacific and 
the course of world history.  This order provides initial guidance and tasks 
for the global planning and execution of this important commemoration.

2.  In support of reference (a), execute a commemorative event commensurate 
with the importance of the BOM for our Navy and Nation.

3.  Commander's Intent:
    a.  Purpose.  Serve as a commemoration of our Navy's greatest victory.  
Specifically, the commemoration will:
        (1) Engage the American public on how the Navy has been and remains 
critical to our Nation's defense.
        (2) Inspire the current generation of Sailors to trace their roots to 
those who fought in and won this great battle.  Highlight the core attributes 
of toughness, initiative, accountability, and integrity of American Sailors 
and Navy civilians who contributed to success at Midway and throughout World 
War II.
        (3) Draw parallels between today's forward deployed presence/ 
operations to the historical lessons of the battle to cultivate an informed 
future for our Navy.
    b.  Method.  Command-centric execution of a coordinated Navy-wide BOM 
commemoration.
        (1) Use available Navy outreach assets to maximum extent possible.
        (2) Be guided by, and supportive of, the Navy's strategic messaging.
    c.  End State.  The BOM commemoration becomes an institutionalized 
community outreach and Navy pride event observed globally.

4.  Tasks:
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the annual BOM commemoration.
    b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC):
        (1) Coordinate and support the execution of Midway commemoration 
events to include the execution of a Navy-wide observation and supporting 
community outreach events.
        (2) Act as the coordination lead for a live commemorative event on 
Midway Atoll at 1400 on 5 June 2017 (EDT).
            (a) Coordinate with Defense Media Activity (DMA) for a broadcast 
and web-based live feed from Midway Atoll so that commands can incorporate 
viewing into individual ceremonies.
            (b) Coordinate with DMA, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) 
and Naval District Washington (NDW) to incorporate live feed from Midway 
Atoll into BOM ceremony in the Navy Capital Region.
            (c) Coordinate with DMA, Navy Commands, and BOM commemorations 
across the globe to maximize the reach and impact of DMA's broadcast 
capabilities from the Midway Atoll.
        (3) Establish a Working Group (WG) of key stakeholders to oversee 
planning and program development for the BOM commemoration.
            (a) Director, NHHC will serve as chairman of the BOM WG.
            (b) Track Navy-wide commemoration plans as they develop and 
coordinate with BOM WG members to identify and share available resources for 
the global execution of the BOM commemoration.
        (4) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by Commander, U.S.Fleet 
Forces Command (COMUSFLTFORCOM), Commander, U.S. Pacific
Fleet (COMPACFLT), Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Regional 
Commanders, Commanding Officers (CO) and Officers in Charge (OIC).
            (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous BOM commemorations.
            (b) Post all documents and associated points of contact on the 
NHHC website (https://www.history.navy.mil) NLT 1 May 2017.
        (5) Develop a BOM 75th Anniversary Communication Plan, including 
public affairs guidance, and provide to Chief of Naval Information (CHINFO) 
for dissemination to the fleet by 17 April 2017.
        (6) Compile BOM lessons learned from stakeholders and provide to DNS 
NLT 10 July 2017.
    c.  COMPACFLT:
        (1) Provide a Navy uniformed representative during the live 
commemoration held on the Midway Atoll, 5 June 2017.
        (2) Provide a Navy uniformed bugler in support of the commemoration 
held on the Midway Atoll, 5 June 2017.
        (3) Provide oversight on a ceremony to be held 1100 PDT, Monday, 5 
June 2017, on the Midway museum ship in San Diego.
            (a) Provide DIRLAUTH to Commander Naval Air Forces (CNAF) for 
coordination with NHHC, DMA, the USS Midway Museum and USFWS to host a 
ceremony broadcast and web-streamed live nationally that will serve as the 
anchor event for the commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of 
Midway.
        (4) Provide representatives as necessary to support the BOM WG.
        (5) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the 75th
anniversary of the BOM.
        (6) Execute the BOM 75th Anniversary Communication Plan, disseminated 
by the CHINFO, and participate in planned community outreach activities as 
operationally feasible.
        (7) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 20 June 2017.
    d.  COMUSFLTFORCOM, CNIC, Commander, Navy Reserve Force Command 
(COMNAVRESFORCOM), Commander, Naval Education and Training Command, and 
Commander, Naval Recruiting Command:
        (1) Provide representatives as necessary to support the BOM WG.
        (2) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the 75th anniversary 
of the BOM.
        (3) Execute the BOM 75th Anniversary Communication Plan, disseminated 
by the CHINFO, and participate in planned community outreach activities as 
operationally feasible.
    e.  CNAF:
        (1) Coordinate with NHHC, DMA, the USS Midway Museum and USFWS to 
host a ceremony broadcast and web-streamed live nationally that will serve as 
the anchor event for the commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of the Battle 
of Midway.
        (2) Incorporate the BOM 75th Anniversary Communication Plan, 
disseminated by the CHINFO, and participate in planned community outreach 
activities as operationally feasible.
    f.  CHINFO:
        (1) Provide representatives to the BOM WG.
        (2) Coordinate with DMA to create and share BOM content that shows 
the importance of the battle NLT 2 May 2017.
        (3) Disseminate the BOM 75th Anniversary Communication Plan to ashore 
and afloat commands by 2 May 2017.  This plan should include Navy's strategic 
message and talking points for this event.
        (4) Provide BOM lessons learned to NHHC NLT 20 June 2017.
    g.  NDW:
        (1) Host the 75th Anniversary Battle of Midway commemoration at 1400 
(EDT), Monday, 5 June 2017, to enable local events to commemorate 
simultaneously across the nation during daylight hours.

5.  Coordinating Instructions:
    a.  Additional coordination instructions and tasking to be provided by 
separate correspondence (SEPCOR) as plans develop.

6.  Administrative:
    a.  The Midway toolkit will be available at the NHHC website
(https://www.history.navy.mil/midway) NLT 8 April 2017.
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance:
        (1) This is an active public affairs posture event.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

7.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC is Ms. Katherine Sequeira, at comm:
(202) 433-7880 DSN:  (288) 433-7880 or via email: 
katherine.sequeira(AT)navy.mil.

8.  Released by VADM J. G. Foggo, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
