RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0121 1401840-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 201840Z MAY 14 PSN 498409K34
FM NAVWARCOL NEWPORT RI
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT

NAVADMIN 121/14

SUBJ/CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATION'S PROFESSIONAL READING PROGRAM (CNO-PRP) 
UPDATE//

REF A/MSG/NAVADMIN 121400Z OCT 12//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 309/12 - LAUNCH OF CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS 
PROFESSIONAL READING PROGRAM (CNO-PRP)//

RMKS/1. In the fall of 2012, the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) launched the 
Professional Reading Program (PRP). The 18 titles in this program aligned 
with his CNO's Sailing Directions three tenets:
    
   a. Warfighting first

   b. Operate forward

   c. Be ready

2. The 18 selections that comprise the CNO-PRP have been stream-lined from an 
original number of 42 to make the Navy's reading program more interactive, 
affordable, and electronically accessible.

3. In the coming weeks, an update to the CNO-PRP will be launched to keep the 
PRP fresh and relevant. This update adds five new titles that maintain a 
focus on professional development of Sailors throughout the Fleet: 

   a. "Cyber Security and Cyber War" by P. W. Singer and A. Friedman

   b. "Leading With the Heart" by Mike Krzyzewski and D. Philips

   c. "The Trident" by Jason Redman and J. Bruning

   d. "Turn the Ship Around" by CAPT David Marquet, USN (Ret) 

   e. "The Twilight War" by David Crist

4. A kit containing these five new titles will be shipped to commands 
throughout the Fleet. Large commands will receive multiple copies of each 
title. Commands with existing reading program libraries should integrate the 
new hard copy titles into their legacy collections. Books from previous lists 
should be retained to build a growing and versatile lending library for the 
command.

5. Commands should ensure the five new hard copy books are integrated into 
existing collections and are made accessible to all Sailors; put internal 
control procedures in place to strike the appropriate balance between 
maintaining accountability for the books and making them available on a loan 
basis to as many Sailors as possible. Additionally, if it is necessary to 
replace worn, damaged, and missing books; contact the CNO-PRP management 
office at the Naval War College at (401) 841-3145 or via email at 
navyreading(AT)usnwc.edu to determine if additional books can be provided 
from existing stocks. 

6. A number of current and previous CNO-PRP titles are available for free 
loan as eBook and/or digital audio downloads from the Navy library e-content 
within the Navy General Library Program (NGLP) portal. Efforts are underway 
to procure additional titles as publishers make them available in compatible 
formats. The NGLP site also provides users access to thousands of other free 
books, magazines, and periodicals. Check with your command information 
assurance manager or network administrator for details on how to access this 
online content at your command. For Sailors who prefer to purchase their own 
copies, they are available at Navy Exchange (NEX) retail outlets, or online 
at www.mynavyexchange.com under CNO-PRP books in the uniform sales section. 

7. This book listing is not intended to limit professional reading in any 
way, but merely to provide easy access to a few of the many titles that will 
benefit our service. The entire list, with book summaries and additional 
information is available at www.navyreading.navy.mil. The CNO-PRP management 
office at the Naval War College can be reached at (401) 841-3145 or via email 
at navyreading(AT)usnwc.edu. The office welcomes any questions and feedback 
about the CNO-PRP, including recommendations for books to be added to the 
program in the future. 

8. Active participation in the CNO-PRP is highly encouraged. The intent of 
this program is to serve as a tool to help extend Sailors' personal and 
professional growth beyond their day-to-day duties. Since the program's 
inception, many commands have established reading groups, essay contests, and 
special liberty programs to reward their dedicated professional readers. 
Reading, discussing, and understanding the ideas found in the CNO-PRP will 
not only improve our critical thinking skills, but will also help us become 
better Sailors, better citizens, and, most importantly, better leaders. 

9. American patriot, Thomas Jefferson was quoted "I cannot live without 
books." He clearly understood the benefits gained by studying the words of 
the great minds of the past and present. The motto of the CNO-PRP is: "read 
to be ready." Everyone serving in our Navy can benefit greatly by using 
reading as another way to prepare themselves for service with honor, courage, 
and commitment.

10. Released by RADM Walter E. Carter, Jr., President, Naval War College.//

BT
#0655
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
