UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 241300Z APR 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 095/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/SPECIALTY CAREER PATH UPDATE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/121505ZFEB10//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 049/10 SPECIALTY CAREER PATH PROGRAM EXTENSION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels reference (a) and announces changes to the 
Unrestricted Line Specialty Career Path (SCP) Program and MILPERSMAN Article 
1301-233, Officer Special Assignments Specialty Career Path.  The SCP program 
is designed to provide the Navy with a cadre of officers with proficiency and 
expertise in eight key Navy mission areas.  As we work to grow the Navy the 
Nation Needs, there is a requirement for people of diverse backgrounds and 
experiences, critical thinking skills and the mental agility to operate 
across the spectrum of change that lies ahead in this era of Great Power 
Competition.  Officers with skills that fall within the SCP program remain 
valued and important to Navy efforts and we will seek to retain their 
expertise in which we have heavily invested, to preserve our competitive 
advantage in the maritime security environment.

2.  Based upon a thorough review of the program with all stakeholders, the 
following SCP disciplines will remain open to qualified candidates:

    a.  Antisubmarine Warfare (ASW)
    b.  Education and Training Management (ETMS)
    c.  Financial Management (FM)
    d.  Mine Warfare (MIW)
    e.  Missile Defense (MD)
    f.  Naval Operational Planner (NOP)
    g.  Operations Analysis (OA)
    h.  Strategic Sealift (SS)

3.  Effective immediately, the Anti-Terrorism Force Protection
(AT/FP) and Shore Installation Management (SIM) SCP disciplines are 
discontinued.  Those officers already in the AT/FP and SIM SCPs will remain 
until they retire or separate.  Personnel in AT/FP or SIM coded assignments 
will remain until their Projected Rotation Date.

4.  In addition to the termination of the AT/FP and SIM SCPs, there will no 
longer be administrative boards held to select officers for any of the 
remaining SCP disciplines or to screen SCP officers for the milestones of 
Commanding Officer (CO) and Executive Officer (XO).

5.  Executive Lead Agents (ELAs) will determine which officers are admitted 
to a particular SCP via an application and screening process conducted by the 
ELA.  Though there will be no new SCP officers screened for SCP CO or XO 
milestone, officers who have already screened may still fill a CO or XO 
equivalent billet until the current bank of SCP milestone screened officers 
is exhausted.

6.  ELAs will review their SCP billet base and submit recommended changes to 
Career Management Department (PERS-4) and the Navy Total Force Manpower, 
Training and Education Requirements Division (OPNAV N12).  ELAs should also 
act as a subspecialty code advocate with
PERS-4 in an effort to enhance subspecialty utilization throughout the Navy.

7.  Eligibility for application is open to all officers with the exception of 
Full Time Support and 1130/1140 designated officers.
Applicants must meet the following criteria:
    a.  1110.  After completion of first department head (DH) tour or after 
completing 18 months of a single, longer DH tour.  Screened officers are 
eligible for SCP detailing upon satisfactory completion of DH tour 
requirements.
    b.  1120.  O-4 (Select), O-4 and O-5 officers who do not have nuclear 
Additional Qualification Designator (AQD) Codes or other officers approved by 
the Submarine Officer Distribution Division
(PERS-42) on a case basis.
    c.  1310/1320.  Upon completion of a DH tour, failure to select for a DH 
tour for the second time, or upon opting out of DH selection, if applicable.

8.  Applicants must meet eligibility requirements and may only apply and be 
accepted into one SCP discipline.  Officers currently processing for 
administrative separation, who are subjects of pending detachment for cause 
requests or who have been detached for cause are ineligible for this program.  
An officer who has a request for resignation pending, or has a resignation 
already approved by the Secretary of the Navy, must first submit a 
resignation withdrawal request.  An application for this program will not be 
processed until the request for withdrawal of resignation has been approved.
    a.  More information on application deadlines and submission will be 
published by individual ELAs.
    b.  Applicants are encouraged to discuss this program with their detailer 
and mentors before submitting a request.
    c.  Applicants are encouraged to review special incentive pay directives 
applicable to their community.
    d.  SCP officers will still fulfill community specific sea/shore rotation 
and are not guaranteed an SCP billet for every assignment.
    e.  SCP officers will be considered non-due course and will no longer be 
eligible for administrative milestone boards in their parent communities.

9.  We are moving out on the new officer personnel management reforms enacted 
in the FY-19 NDAA.  Up and Stay is a program which permits the retention of 
certain control grade officers with targeted skills beyond traditional 
statutory limits.  While we initially focused on skills found in the 
aviation, acquisition, engineering duty officer and attach disciplines, there 
is room for expansion in the future.  In addition, with a growing Navy you 
can expect continued promotion opportunity and interested officers should 
still apply for this program.

10.  Please contact your detailer for further information on the SCP program.

11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

