
UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 191937Z DEC 18
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 310/18

SUBJ/2019 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/DEC18/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/12FEB18//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//
REF/D/DOC/CNO/DEC18//
REF/E/DOC/CHINFO/NOV18/-//NOTAL//
NARR/ Ref A is ATSD(PA) memo, DoD FY19 Strategic Public Affairs
Outreach Activities.  
Ref B is OPNAVINST 5726.8b, Outreach: Americas Navy.  
Ref C is NAVADMIN 148/16 announcing the American Connections Media Outreach 
Program.  
Ref D is CNO Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority.  Ref E is the 2019 
Navy Communication Strategy.//
POC/Rob Newell/Civ/CHINFO/LOC:  WASHINGTON, DC/TEL: (703) 614-1879
/EMAIL:  ROBERT.D.NEWELL1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

1.  As our countrys veteran population declines with the passing of the 
WWII/Korea generations, communities and families - across the United States 
are increasingly losing their close ties and connection to the military.  The 
close relationship between military and civilian communities has long been an 
essential part of preserving the all-volunteer force, and inspiring future 
generations to serve. Community Outreach Programs help fill this void.   
Recent assessments done by the Gallup Corporation show that those who come in 
contact with our Sailors whether it be through a ship tour, school visit, 
attendance at an air show or other community event are at least forty percent 
more likely to recommend serving in the Navy to a family member.  Fifty-six 
percent say the experience made them view the Navy more favorably.   Why?  
Because it provided the chance to learn about who we are, what we do and the
unique opportunities that come with naval service.   This year, with the 
overall active duty recruiting goal increasing to 44,000, the importance of 
Community Outreach Programs is even more pronounced.

2.  Reference (a) identifies community outreach as a critical DoD Priority in 
2019 and authorizes the Services to execute their community outreach programs 
in a sustainable, fiscally responsible manner.   This NAVADMIN issues 
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community Outreach 
Program.   Per reference (a), and in support and alignment with references 
(b) through (e), the following community outreach programs are authorized for
Calendar Year 2019 (CY19):
    a.  8 Fleet Weeks:  Port Everglades, Fla.; New York, N.Y.;
    Norfolk, Va.; Portland, Ore.; Los Angeles, Calif.; San Francisco,
    Calif.; Seattle, Wash.; and San Diego, Calif.  Tasking and
    responsibilities for these events will be provided SEPCOR by
    cognizant operational and regional commanders.   Regional commands,
    through the assistance of area Navy Recruiting Districts (NRD) and
    Navy Operational Support Centers (NOSC), are authorized and
    encouraged to seek opportunities throughout the year in Fleet Week
    cities to build on the goodwill and engagement generated by Fleet
    Week events.
    b.  14 Navy Weeks:  Mobile, Ala., Feb. 27-March 5; Charleston,
    S.C., March 11-17; Miami, Fla., March 25-31; Wilmington, N.C., April
    1-7; San Juan, P.R., April 8-14; Oklahoma City, Okla., May 27-June
    2; Nashville, Tenn., June 3-9; Quad Cities, Iowa, June 24-30;
    Duluth, Minn., July 15-21; Grand Junction, Colo., July 22-28; Boise,
    Idaho, Aug. 19-25; St. Louis, Mo., Sept. 2-8; Wichita, Kan., Sept. 9
    -15; and Charleston, W.V., Oct. 14-20.  Per reference (b), the Navy
    Week program is a community outreach requirement, led by the Navy
    Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO), and is a program uniquely
    positioned to increase understanding of the Navy and its mission in
    markets across America which do not have a Navy presence.  As such,
    the following commands and activities will support the 2019 Navy
    Week campaign to the maximum extent operational schedules will allow:
        (1) Depending on market size, each Navy Week will have one or
        two Flag Officers or Senior Executive Service (SES) civilians
        participating as senior Navy executive representatives.  In
        coordination with Public Affairs (PA) and personal staffs, NAVCO
        will develop an itinerary comprised of high-level outreach
        engagements with key influencers from all sectors of the Navy Week
        market for participating senior Navy executives.
        (2) Naval Special Warfare Command and Commander, Navy
        Recruiting Command (CNRC) will make the Navy Parachute Team (Leap
        Frogs) available depending on venues and opportunities. The SEAL
        /SWCC Scout Team is also requested to participate where mission
        equities and Navy Weeks intersect.
        (3) Navy Expeditionary Combat Command will make expeditionary
        units (divers, EOD teams, Riverine, Seabees) and their equipment
        available.
        (4) TYCOMs will support with Sailors assigned to ships,
        squadrons and submarines with namesake city or state ties. For
        cities where more than one namesake unit has a relationship, NAVCO
        will coordinate with TYCOMs to determine the most feasible
        assignment.
        (5) Commander, Naval Air Forces (AIRFOR) and Commander, Naval
        Air Force Reserve (AIRFORRES) will support with aircraft and aircrew
        participation.
        (6) Commander, Navy Reserve Force will support with NOSC
        Sailors and other resources as coordinated with NAVCO Navy Week
        planning leads.
        (7) Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED) will support with
        Navy medical professionals, equipment and displays as appropriate.
        (8) Office of Naval Research will participate with personnel
        and assets participating in Science, Technology, Engineering and
        Mathematics (STEM) events.
        (9) U.S. Navy Band and Fleet Band activities will support
        with regional bands and premiere bands when appropriate.
        (10) Naval Education and Training Command (NETC) and Naval
        Service Training Command (NSTC) will support with participation from
        NROTC units.
        (11) USS CONSTITUTION will support with Sailors, equipment
        and displays.
        (12) CNRC will support with NRD and Navy Recruiting Station
        Sailors and recruiting properties, simulators and other equipment as
        appropriate.
        (13) Navy commands and units within a reasonable distance of
        Navy Week cities will support with hometown Sailors, other personnel
        and equipment, as coordinated with Navy Week planning teams.
        (14) Blue Angels performances will provide the foundational
        event for Navy Weeks in Oklahoma City, Okla.; Nashville, Tenn.; Quad
        Cities, Iowa; Duluth, Minn.; Grand Junction, Colo.; and St. Louis,
        Mo.  Within existing guidelines, regulations and mission priorities,
        the team will integrate its outreach event schedule and effort with
        the Navy Week program to the maximum extent possible.
        (15) Naval History and Heritage Command will support with
        speakers and displays.
        (16) Navy Ceremonial Guard will support with its drill team.
        (17) Department of the Navy Office of Small Business Programs
        (OSBP) will provide detailed statistics for each market and will
        provide representatives to attend and speak at multiple small
        business events in conjunction with Navy Weeks as a part of our
        efforts to provide the highest quality of support to small business
        owners and entrepreneurs.
        (18) Navy Meteorological and Oceanography Command (METOC)
        will support with personnel, equipment and displays.
        (19) The U.S. Naval Academy will support with personnel,
        displays and presentations, in addition to isolated admissions
        events when possible.
        (20) Command Sailors of the Year and Sailors of the Quarter
        whose hometowns are Navy Week cities, as well as additional units or
        activities with outreach capability not listed above, are encouraged
        and welcome to participate in the Navy Week program and should
        contact NAVCO for further guidance.
    c.  The American Connections Media Outreach Program, announced in
    reference (c), will continue to be a prominent component of the Navy
    2019 community outreach strategy.  Managed by NAVCO, it was
    established to share the Navy story with media across the country in
    markets which generally do not receive Navy news and
    information.  In 2019, the program will include the following
    elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys small production
        teams to commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos
        of assigned Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those
        Sailors have local connections.  NAVCO will conduct 20 Media
        Production Visits in 2019 in support of key Navy communication
        priorities and programs.  Every effort should be made to assist and
        accommodate these visits, and steps should be taken to maximize
        participation.  Priorities (proposed locations) include:
            (a) Aviation Modernization and Readiness (Jacksonville,
            Norfolk, San Diego, Whidbey Island)
            (b) Building an Agile/Ready Fleet (Gulfport, Stennis)
            (c) Building a Talented Fleet/People: Our Greatest
            Resource (Corpus, Great Lakes, Kingsville, Millington)
            (d) Strategic Deterrence/Ohio Replacement (Kings Bay,
            Oklahoma City)
            (e) Maritime Dominance/Strengthen Global Defense (Bahrain
            /BALTOPS)
            (f) Forward Deployed Naval Forces (Guam, Sasebo,
            Yokosuka)
            (g) Surface Readiness (Mayport, Norfolk, San Diego)
            (h) Undersea Warfare (Pearl Harbor)
        (2) Media advisory service.  NAVCO notifies local media when
        Sailors are promoted, receive an award, earn a warfare
        qualification, complete a deployment or achieve other
        recognition.  Sailors may submit material for this service by e
        -mailing navyoutreach@navy.mil.
        (3) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day,
        commands throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos
        featuring the professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments
        of Navy commands.  NAVCO provides these stories and photos to media
        where Sailors have local connections and to media with ties to
        namesake units. To maximize the utility of this program, commands
        should include a local connection (hometown, high school, etc.) for
        every Sailor identified in a photo or story.
        (4) Radio shout-out service.  A toll-free telephone service
        (1 -855-OUR-NAVY or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to
        record a 15-second greeting, which is shared with local radio
        stations where Sailors have local connections.  Greetings can be
        submitted in conjunction with a holiday or observance, such as
        Thanksgiving, Veterans Day, etc.  Greetings can also be sent from
        Sailors, or namesake units, to offer support to their home teams
        participating in major sporting events.
    d.  Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval aviation outreach is
    particularly effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring a
    primary warfighting platform to inland markets.  The following naval
    aviation outreach activities are authorized in 2019:
       (1) 36 full Blue Angels performances.
       (2) 30 Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) performances.
       (3) 8 Navy-hosted air shows/open houses:  NAS Key West, Fla.;
       NAS Corpus Christi, Texas; NAS Jacksonville, Fla.; NAS Pensacola,
       Fla.; NAS Oceana, Va.; NAS Lemoore, Calif.; NAS El Centro, Calif.;
       Naval Construction Battalion Center Gulfport, Miss.  These events
       are authorized to have aerial demonstrations by aviation assets
       organic to the installation.
       (4) 10 TACAIRDEMO performances at Chief of Information
       (CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not
       performing.
       (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows
       and other events.
       (6) 50 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by
       CHINFO), equally divided between East and West Coast aviation
       assets, at CHINFO-authorized events.  Flyover support will only be
       provided to those events that have the ability to showcase Naval
       Aviation to a national or international audience.  Requests are
       submitted to NAVCO using DD Form 2535, reviewed by the Aviation
       Outreach Working Group (AOWG) consisting of representatives from
       CNAL, CNAP, NAVCO and CHINFO, before being forwarded to the Chief of
       Information for final approval.
       (7) Aviation outreach support which falls into the following
       categories is not subject to limits specified in reference (a):
           (a)  Military services retain operational authority over
           support for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not
           considered community outreach events.
           (b)  Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended
           primarily for an internal audience are not considered outreach
           events and may be conducted with TYCOM approval.  This includes     
U.S. Naval Academy events.
           (c)  Aviation outreach support, to include flyovers, at
     CHINFO-authorized events in the local area are permitted when it 
is deemed by the local or regional commander to be in the interest of
           maintaining good relations with key community partners and
           organizations.
    e.  Continental United States port visits.  From an outreach
    perspective, there is no more effective means to showcase the Navy's
    capabilities and its talented Sailors than allowing Americans to
    visit a ship or submarine.  As such, a maximum of 20 port visits for
    outreach have been approved during 2019.  The following CONUS port
    visits are currently scheduled:
        (1) East Coast (13):  Charleston, SC (2); Mobile, Ala.;
        Wilmington, NC; Miami, FL; Eastport, ME; Rockland, ME; Boston, Mass.
        (2); Bristol, RI; Newport, RI; Annapolis, MD.; New York, NY
        (2) West Coast (8):  Seattle, Wash.; San Francisco, Calif.;
        Los Angeles, Calif.; Long Beach, Calif.; Malibu, Calif.; Hilo,
        Hawaii; Juneau, Alaska; Seal Beach, CA
        (3) Other port visits conducted primarily for training or
        operational purposes are not subject to limits specified in
        reference (a).
        (4) Per reference (b), the following elements should be
        incorporated into every outreach port visit SOE:
            (a)  Media day (pier side press availability and a
            shipboard tour).
            (b)  Very important person (VIP) reception.
            (c)  VIP tours for local civic and community leaders.
            (d)  The maximum amount of public visitation possible to
            the extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
            (e)  Two community relations projects, such as beach
            clean-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with
            appropriate media coverage.
    f.  25 Executive Outreach Visits.  NAVCO administers the Navy's
    Executive Engagement Visit (EEV) program for flag officers and SES
    civilians for the purpose of conducting multi-day outreach
    engagements in U.S. cities. NAVCO will coordinate itineraries for
    participating Navy leaders to include engagements with corporate
    executives, government officials, education leaders, civic groups,
    veterans organizations and media.
        (1) Proposed 2019 EEV cities are: Billings, Mont.; Mobile,
        Ala.; Salt Lake City, Utah; Indianapolis, Ind.; Little Rock, Ark.;
        Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn.; Austin, Texas; Spokane, Wash.;
        Pittsburgh, Pa.; Green Bay, Wis.; Portland, Maine; Oklahoma City,
        Okla.; Fort Worth, Texas; Kansas City, Kan.; Dover, Del.;
        Cincinnati, Ohio; Wichita, Kan.; Charleston, S.C.; Burlington, Vt.;
        Colorado Springs, Colo.; Raleigh, N.C.; Lubbock, Texas; Tulsa,
        Okla.; Nashville, Tenn.; and Chicago, Ill.
        (2)  Other cities to which a flag officer or SES civilian has
        a significant tie may be considered in lieu of cities mentioned
        previously.
        (3)  Per reference (b), travel by flag officers, SES
        civilians and members of the command triad outside the local area to
        participate in community outreach and other representational events
        that demonstrably help achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and
        will be considered essential official business in the governments
        interest.
    g.  Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most
    effective means to connect Americans with their Navy is through
    strong and enduring namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the
    requirements specified for the Navy Week program referenced above,
    reference (a) approves visits by crewmembers of ships and submarines
    with namesake ties to their namesake city or state.
    h.  Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  Reference
    (a) approves the following:
        (1) The fall, spring and summer tours for the Navy's premier
        bands.
        (2) Use of operational funding for regional band outreach
        travel and performances.
        (3) Participation in the International and Midwest Band and
        Orchestra Clinic.
        (4) U.S. Navy Band public outreach concerts, including those
        outside the National Capital Region (NCR), and large public concerts
        inside the NCR.
        (5) U.S. Navy Band and Fleet Band Activities will oversee and
        collect all new outreach measurement guidelines as detailed in
        reference (a).
        (6) Also approved are performances by the Navy Ceremonial
        Guard in parades outside of the National Capital Region and other
        miscellaneous outreach at events such as the Super Bowl, Warrior
        Games, New York City Veterans Day Parade, Navy Weeks and similar
        events.
    i.  Navy Birthday and Historical Observances.  Funding has been
    approved under reference (a) for commands and activities to
    commemorate the Navy Birthday, Battle of Midway, events
    commemorating the 75th anniversary of major World War II events, the
    centennial anniversary of World War I, the 50th anniversary of the
    Vietnam War, and other historical observances. Commands are
    encouraged to align activities and events with the following
    significant anniversary dates in 2019:
        (1) Jan 22 - Battle of Anzio (WWII@75): (Atlantic Theater)
        (2) March 27  Naval Act of 1794.
        (3) June 04  Capture of U-505 (Enigma and Intelligence) (WWII
        @75): (Atlantic Theater)
        (4) June 06  Allied Invasion of Normandy (WWII@75): (Atlantic
        Theater)
        (5) June 19-20  Battle of Philippine Sea (WWII@75): (Pacific
        Theater)
        (6) July 17  Explosion at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine,
        Port Chicago, CA (Homefront)
        (7) July 20  Apollo 11  First Moon Landing (Homefront)
        (8) September 15  Battle of Peleliu (WWII@75): (Pacific
        Theater)
        (9) October 23-26  Battle of Leyte Gulf(WWII@75): (Pacific
        Theater)
        (10) More detailed information and products on these
        anniversaries can be found at: https://www.history.navy.mil/browse
        -by-topic /commemorations-toolkits.html
        (11) Other resources available to align Navy History with
        Community Outreach initiatives include:
             (a) Listing of all NHHC Museums - https:
             /www.history.navy.mil/visit-our-museums.html
             (b) Infographics on history and heritage topics - https:
             /www.history.navy.mil/news-and-events/multimedia-gallery
             /infographics.html
             (c) Ship histories - https://www.history.navy.mil
             /research/histories/ship-histories.html
             (d) Heritage resources - https://www.history.navy.mil
             /browse-by-topic/heritage.html
             (e) Navy communities (CPO, Navy Medicine, Naval
             Aviation, Seabees, Chaplain Corps) - 
https://www.history.navy.mil
             /browse-by-topic/communities.html
             (f) Diversity - https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by
             -topic/diversity.html
             (g) Notable people - https://www.history.navy.mil/browse
             -by-topic/people.html
    j.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  For activities not
    included in reference (a), use of local resources to support
    outreach activities in the local area is authorized and
    encouraged.  Local area is defined in Joint Travel Regulation,
    Chapter 2, Part L, Section 2800 12.
    k.  Entertainment Media.  Major motion pictures and television
    series provide an additional medium to reach and connect millions of
    Americans across the country to their Navy.  Support is authorized
    for entertainment media engaged in production of feature films (Top
    Gun: Maverick; Battle of Midway) television series (NCIS, NCIS New
    Orleans) and other projects as deemed appropriate by CHINFO and
    approved by OSD.
    l.  The STEM Virtual Field Trip Program that brings the Navy LIVE
    into classrooms across the country is authorized.   Additional
    questions regarding this program should be directed to Mr. Rob
    Newell at CHINFO at (703) 614-1879.
    m.  Aircraft Carrier, ship and submarine underway embarks for
    distinguished visitors and media are authorized IAW reference (b).

3.  In addition to their inherent value to recruiting, Community Outreach 
Programs also provide unique opportunities to share our priorities and 
explain why a strong Navy continues to be important to the United States.  
Reference (e) outlines the Navys key themes and messages for 2019.  Commands 
are encouraged to use them in the execution of the programs outlined in this 
NAVADMIN.

4.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require approval by 
the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.  
Requests for an exception to policy must be forwarded through CHINFO.  For 
additional questions pertaining to this NAVADMIN and the execution of the 
Navy's 2019 Community Outreach Plan, please contact Mr. Rob Newell at (703) 
614-1879.

5.  Released by CAPT G. L. Hicks, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

