RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0117 1261657-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 161657Z MAY 14 PSN 464782K31
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
TO NAVADMIN 
BT
UNCLAS//N01500// 

NAVADMIN 117/14 

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY// 

SUBJ/ REDUCING ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRACTIONS (RAD)// 

RMKS/1. RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN is to inform the fleet of an ongoing effort 
called Reducing Administrative Distractions (RAD) and to solicit Fleet 
participation. RAD was initiated when CNO heard feedback from the fleet that 
Sailors are not able to focus their daily activities on "Warfighting First" 
due to administrative distractions. 

2. RAD Round 1 was launched last summer and received over 1,400 ideas from 
Active Duty, Reserve and Navy Civilians on how to reduce administrative 
distractions. Changes are now underway:  the number of General Military 
Training (GMT) requirements have been reduced and more reforms are being 
articulated; major advancements in digitizing Material, Maintenance and 
Management (3M) programs will be tested live onboard a Destroyer this fall 
and then populated in the fleet; and other areas such as Common Access Card 
(CAC) expanded utilization, establishment of a Navy wiki-encyclopedia, Anti-
Terrorism-Force Protection (ATFP) administrative reforms and more are also 
underway.

3. RAD continues with Round 2, "call for ideas" which commenced online on 15 
May 2014.  Sailors, Active and Reserve and Navy Civilians are encouraged to 
participate, but participation is purely voluntary. To do so they need to 
initially register at https://navyrad.ideascale.com/ using their CAC and 
military email address. Once an account and password is established, flexible 
access is provided via NMCI or personal email account. 

4. Utilizing RAD Round 2 to identify solutions for distractions is only one 
means of making substantive progress in reducing administrative distractions. 
RAD is a culture changer. To assist in this effort, the Fleet is encouraged 
to examine processes and reporting that they own for relevancy, redundancy 
and periodicity. For instance, CNP recently eliminated the reporting 
requirement at the unit level to log completed enlisted leadership training 
onto the Fleet Management and Planning System (FLTMPS).  Input from the Fleet 
indentified access to FLTMPS is difficult and slow and obfuscates the 
promotion process.  CNP and Navy leadership in general place trust in 
Commanding Officers to carry out the requirement and therefore the reporting 
requirement in FLTMPS is no longer required. This may seem small or 
inconsequential, but the more administrative distractions reviewed and 
removed, the more valuable time will be restored to train and operate. 

5. This effort will only be successful if leadership across all levels 
participate to identify solutions, and continue to encourage a culture of 
change and innovation across the deck plates. This is an opportunity to save 
hundreds of man hours, further empower Commanding Officers, and improve our 
Sailors "Quality of Work"--without lowering standards. It's all about 
"Warfighting First".

6. Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director Navy Staff.//

BT
#0440
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

