UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 171519Z AUG 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 195/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/EXECUTIVE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE 
PROGRAM FOR MARCH 2016//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/061710ZAUG07//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 195/07, OFFICER GRADUATE EDUCATION SERVICE 
OBLIGATION.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the March 2016 
distance learning Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) program.  
The program will be taught in the fleet concentration areas (Norfolk, 
Washington, DC, and San Diego) and other eligible sites.

2.  The Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) defense-focused EMBA is a 24-month, 
fully-funded, part-time graduate program focused on resource management.  The 
program prepares middle to senior grade active-duty officers, lieutenant 
commander (select) and above, whose career paths do not support in-resident 
graduate education.

3.  The program begins with a one-week temporary additional duty (TAD) 
resident program at the NPS campus in Monterey, CA.  Official travel orders 
and funding for TAD travel will be provided by the student's parent command.  
If command funding is not available, students may fund their own travel and 
utilize no-cost TAD orders from their command.  During resident week, 
students will take a two-credit hour course in managing teams.  Additionally, 
students will interact with the faculty who will be teaching throughout the 
program and master the skills required to learn via distance learning 
methods.  The NPS program is scheduled for the week of 22-26 February 2016.  
A block of rooms have been reserved at Navy Lodge, Monterey, CA for 
attendees.  Optionally, the NPS bachelor officer quarters on campus may be 
utilized on a space available basis.  Transportation by bus will be provided 
to and from the Navy Lodge for daily classes on the NPS campus to minimize 
TAD costs.

4.  NPS faculty use video teleconferencing (VTC), internet, and other 
distance learning modes to teach the follow-on courses. Students meet in VTC-
capable classrooms once a week during normal duty hours for six to seven 
hours of instruction, taking two classes per quarter for eight quarters.  
Students enter the EMBA program as a cohort and will take all courses 
together as a learning team (minimum five personnel).  All students must 
recognize that attending classes with their respective cohort is mandatory to 
complete the degree requirements.  VTC instruction will begin during the week 
of 28 March 2016.

5.  Eligibility requirements include an undergraduate degree from a 
regionally accredited 4-year college or university, academic profile code of 
245 (2.6 grade point average or higher on a 4 point scale) and 2 precalculus 
courses with a grade average of B or better.  A commanding officer 
endorsement letter is required to participate in the program.  Department 
head or similar mid-level management experience and strong potential for 
promotion are preferred. Participants must have a projected rotation date no 
earlier than March 2018.  The Graduate Management Admission Test is not 
required.

6.  Graduates will be awarded an EMBA degree from NPS and the Navy 
subspecialty code 3100P, Financial Management Defense Focus.  Per reference 
(a), officers participating in this program must agree to remain on active 
duty following completion of graduate studies for a period of three years.  
This obligation is discharged concurrently with any other service obligation 
already incurred.  This agreement does not obligate the Navy to retain the 
officer on active duty.

7.  Officers interested in the EMBA program can visit the NPS EMBA home page 
for detailed eligibility and application process information.  Deadline for 
the application process is no later than 18 December 2015.  The EMBA program 
homepage can be found at www.nps.edu/emba.

8.  Point of contact is the NPS EMBA program office and they can be reached 
at (831) 656-2562/DSN 756, or fax at (831) 656-3630/DSN 756, or via e-mail at 
emba(at)nps.edu.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 June 2016, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
