UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 051538Z MAR 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 056/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/FY-19 NAVY GRADUATE EDUCATION QUOTA PLAN//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the FY-19 Navy graduate education, naval and 
other service war colleges programs, and non-degree programs and fellowships.

2.  The goal of the Navy for its Graduate Education Program is to support our 
National Defense Strategy by increasing emphasis on intellectual leadership 
and military professionalism in the art and science of warfighting, deepening 
our knowledge of history while embracing new technology and techniques to 
counter competitors.
Intellectual leadership, groomed through graduate education, goes beyond 
adaptation of new technology to include promoting ideas, values, 
understanding, vision, approaches and actions.  To this end, the FY-19 quota 
plan is aimed at ensuring the highest performing individuals are sought out, 
encouraged and placed in selective graduate level programs that will enhance 
our warfighting capabilities and sustain strategic superiority.

3.  The FY-19 plan includes numerous elite and competitive programs to 
recognize and reward our top talent.  Selection means an individual 
consistently demonstrates outstanding performance, earned all applicable 
warfare qualifications, achieved community milestones, meets academic 
prerequisites and exhibits strong potential for assignment to positions of 
increasing leadership and responsibility.  Participation in these educational 
opportunities is an investment in our future that will ensure our leaders 
have the skills and knowledge to meet the challenges ahead, and maximize the 
lethality of our force.

4.  The FY-19 plan provides over 1,400 opportunities for degree and non-
degree programs across the full spectrum of communities and ranks.  Quotas 
are categorized into three tiers:
    a.  High priority programs:  Consist of those that have a boarded process 
such as Politico-Military Program, Federal Executive Fellowship, White House 
Fellowship, Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellowship, Legislative 
Fellowship, Secretary of the Navy Tours with Industry, Navy Supply Corps 
Training with Industry, the Secretary of the Navy Naval Innovation Advisory 
Council, Strategic Thinker Art of War Program, Fleet Scholar Education 
Program, PhD Programs, Permanent Military Professor Program, Law Education 
Program, Olmstead Scholarship Program, Immediate Graduate Education Program, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology/Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution 
Program, and Shoemaker Scholarship.
    b.  Joint Professional Military Education:  Includes programs at Naval 
War College, Joint and Service colleges, International Military colleges, and 
Joint and Combined Warfighting School.  We are focusing our efforts on 
ensuring high-performing officers are detailed to these limited 
opportunities.
    c.  Graduate Education Degree programs:  Includes Naval Postgraduate 
School (NPS) masters programs, top civilian universities masters programs, 
U.S. Naval Academy (USNA) Graduate Education and Teaching Program, USNA 
Leadership Education and Development Program, USNA Voluntary Graduate 
Education Program, Graduate Education Voucher Program, and Purdue Military 
Research Initiative.

5.  Enlisted graduate education opportunities will continue to be offered in 
the Cyber Systems Operation program, which allows up to five enlisted 
personnel per year to obtain a twelve month in- residence masters degree at 
NPS.

6.  All Navy personnel are encouraged to explore education opportunities with 
their detailer or mentor as an integral part of a career development 
strategy.

7.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
