UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 191509Z AUG 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 196/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/FY-17 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED SELECTION BOARDS FOR MASTER 
CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/03JUN09//

REF/C/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/192102ZNOV14//

REF/E/DOC/BUPERS/01MAY15//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR THE ENLISTED 
PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 
1220.1D, CHANGING OR REMOVING PRIMARY NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION CODES FOR 
NUCLEAR PROPULSION PLANT OPERATORS.  REF C IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONNEL 
SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 266/14 
SENIOR ENLISTED ACADEMY. REF E IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE 
EVALUATION SYSTEM.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility, communication to 
the boards, and board membership or recorder application procedures regarding 
the FY-17 Navy Active-Duty and Reserve Enlisted Selection Boards for Master 
Chief and Senior Chief Petty Officer.  The reserve board will consider 
personnel serving on active-duty as Full Time Support (FTS) and Selected 
Reserve (SELRES), to include those serving on voluntary and involuntary 
recall and mobilization orders.  Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve
(IRR) personnel are considered under the SELRES requirements for advancement.

2.  Timeline
    a.  23 October 2015.  Navy Personnel Command (NPC) (PERS-802) compiles 
and submits initial time-in-rate (TIR) eligibility list of candidates to 
Naval Education and Training Professional Development and Technology Center 
(NETPDTC) (N321).
    b.  13 November 2015.  Examination Status Verification Reports
(ESVR) will be available at:  https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
    c.  29 January 2016.  Reserve Component (RC) E8/E9 board candidates 
changing ratings must be in their new rating to be considered as a candidate 
in the new rating.
    d.  8 February 2016.  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline to the RC E8/9 
selection board.
    e.  28 February 2016.  Active Component (AC) E9 board candidates changing 
ratings must be in their new rating to be considered as a candidate in the 
new rating.
    f.  29 February 2016.  RC E8/E9 selection board convenes.  All 
eligibility requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval 
prior to this date.
    g.  7 March 2016.  LTB deadline to the AC E9 selection board.
    h.  11 March 2016.  RC E8/E9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    i.  18 March 2016.  AC E8 board candidates changing ratings must be in 
their new rating to be considered as a candidate in the new rating.
    j.  28 March 2016.  AC E9 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.
    k.  28 March 2016.  LTB deadline to the AC E8 selection board.
    l.  8 April 2016.  AC E9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    m.  18 April 2016.  AC E8 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.
    n.  6 May 2016.  AC E8 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

3.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a) prior to the scheduled board convening 
date.  Requirements achieved after the scheduled board convening date will be 
considered late and not entitle a candidate for an enlisted special selection 
board.  The authoritative source to determine if a candidate is selection 
board eligible or not is the profile sheet.  The AC/FTS/SELRES cycle is 229.  
Because eligibility status can change without direct notification, candidates 
should verify their profile sheet on a continuous basis up to the board 
convening date.  Commands must verify their ESVR weekly.  The ESVR is updated 
as changes are processed by PERS-802.  If necessary, take the following 
actions per reference (a).
    a.  If eligible candidates are not listed, mail or send an encrypted e-
mail containing a completed Advancement in Rate or Change in Rating worksheet 
(NETPDTC 1430/3 Rev 06-14) along with a letter of transmittal to NETPDTC 
(N321) and info PERS-802.
    b.  If listed candidates are ineligible or later become ineligible, 
submit a message to NETPDTC N321 and Navy Personnel Command (NAVPERSCOM) 
PERS-802 requesting invalidation of eligibility status and provide 
explanation for invalidation.  Per reference (a) paragraph 721b, withdrawal 
of advancement recommendation must be completed and documented prior to 
message transmission.
    c.  If candidates are validated in wrong competitive category, submit a 
message notification to NETPDTC N321 and NAVPERSCOM
PERS-802 detailing the discrepancy.
    d.  Sailors not selected to continue from a Senior Enlisted Continuation 
Board are ineligible for advancement.
    e.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent chief evaluation shall be invalidated.
Evaluations that restore a recommendation for advancement must be made 
available to the selection board prior to the board convening date.
    f.  Per reference (a), terminal eligibility date used to compute the TIR 
is 1 October 2016.  The minimum TIR date for E8 candidates must be on or 
before 1 September 2013.  The minimum TIR date for E9 candidates must be on 
or before 1 July 2013.
    g.   High Year Tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver must be
on or after 1 July 2016.
    h.  Members who have submitted voluntary Fleet Reserve (FLTRES)/retired 
requests to NPC are not eligible.  Voluntary FLTRES are those not mandated by 
HYT; requests due to HYT are eligible for advancement and selection board 
consideration provided their HYT date for the present paygrade is 1 July 2016 
or later per reference (a).  An approved or pending voluntary 
FLTRES/retirement request must be successfully disapproved, canceled, or 
modified to an involuntary date prior to the board convening to render a 
candidate selection board eligible.
    i.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
To Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program, and Medical 
Service Corps in-service procurement programs remain eligible for advancement 
consideration.  Selection to any other officer commissioning program renders 
candidates ineligible.
Commands are required to request those candidates be invalidated by PERS-802.  
Per reference (b), nuclear candidates will be assigned Navy Enlisted 
Classification (NEC) 3359/3389 upon transfer of a nuclear propulsion plant 
operator to a non-nuclear billet at sea or ashore, or to duty under 
instruction including special college education programs.  Therefore, nuclear 
candidates transferred to a
STA-21 duty station will not be selection board eligible.
    j.  Security clearance requirements.  Candidates in a rating requiring a 
security clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication issued by 
the Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility.  If the candidates 
Commanding Officer (CO) grants an interim clearance, documentation must be 
received by
PERS-802 prior to board convening.  Refer to reference (c) for additional 
guidance.  Once Sailors have a clearance they must maintain that clearance 
eligibility.  Ratings requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, 
AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FT, GM, 
HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, STS, and 
YN, as well as all nuclear and submarine ratings.  This guidance supersedes 
reference (a).
    k.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  The 
Navy accounting status for BRCL 32 Sailors must be verified via the command's 
Enlisted Distribution Verification Report.  BRCL 32 with a blank SPI code is 
an invalid Navy accounting status.  Commands must correct the error via the 
Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System or the Sailor may seek relief via 
petitioning the Board for Correction of Naval Records.  Sailors in this 
accounting status as of the board convening date will be invalidated.
    l.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements.
Candidates must meet special requirements (citizenship, medical,
etc.) for certain ratings as outlined in paragraph 204 of reference (a).  
Commands must verify and submit a message to NETPDTC N321 and NAVPERSCOM 
PERS-802 requesting invalidation of those selection board eligible Sailors 
who no longer meet the qualifications listed in reference (a) or below by the 
scheduled board convening date.
        (1) Air Traffic Controllers must possess a valid Federal Aviation 
Administration 7220-1 ATCS Certificate and meet requirements established in 
NAVMED P-117.
        (2) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel.  To be eligible for 
advancement to E8 and E9, Sailors must hold the master EOD technician NEC 
(5337).
        (3) Navy Diver personnel.  To be eligible for advancement to E8, 
Sailors must hold the first class diver NEC (5342) for group 2 or the master 
diver NEC (5341) for group 1.  To be eligible for advancement to E9, Sailors 
must hold the master diver NEC (5341).
        (4) Nuclear trained personnel:
            (a) To be eligible for advancement to E8, submarine sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, 3366).  
Personnel must also hold a nuclear qualified secondary NEC 3302 (engineering 
department master chief (EDMC)).  A NAVPERS
1221/6 requesting a secondary NEC of 3302 must be submitted to OPNAV
N133 by 8 April 2016.  E-mail the NAVPERS 1221/6 and copy of qualification 
card to bullnuke(at)navy.mil via Force EDMC.
Additional contact information is available via http://www.npc.navy.
mil/bupers-npc/enlisted/community/nuclear/Pages/NuclearEnlisted
Programs.aspx.
            (b) To be eligible for advancement to E8, surface Sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3393, 3394, 3395, 3396).
            (c) To be eligible for advancement to E9, submarine Sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, 3366).  
Personnel must also hold a secondary NEC 3302 and have served or be currently 
serving as an EDMC of a submarine.
Acceptable documentation of EDMC service for review by the advancement board 
includes an evaluation with "EDMC" in Block 29/41 or a letter from the CO via 
the member providing dates of EDMC service.  Sailors without EDMC service 
documented in their service record must submit documentation with their LTB 
providing dates of EDMC service.
            (d) To be eligible for advancement to E9, surface Sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3393, 3394, 3395, 3396), and must 
have served, or be currently serving as, a division leading chief petty 
officer (DLCPO) of a nuclear division at sea (reactor mechanical, reactor 
electrical, reactor controls, reactor propulsion, or reactor laboratories), 
reactor training division officer (RT DIVO) at sea, or leading crew chief 
(LCC) of a prototype.  E8s who are billeted as Reactor Department Master 
Chief
(RDMC) in lieu of DLCPO are also eligible for advancement to E9.
Acceptable documentation of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service for review 
by the advancement board includes an evaluation with DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or 
RDMC in Block 29/41 or a letter from the CO via the member to the board 
providing dates of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service.  Sailors without 
DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service documented in their service record must 
submit documentation with their LTB providing dates of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, 
or RDMC service.
    m.  E9 eligibility requirement.  Per reference (d), starting with the FY-
17 Senior Chief Selection Boards, all newly selected Senior Chiefs are 
required to complete the U.S. Navy Senior Enlisted Academy in Newport, Rhode 
Island or attend either the U.S. Air Force Senior Enlisted Academy, U.S. 
Marine Corps Senior Enlisted Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Senior Enlisted 
Academy, or the Joint Special Warfare Academy in order to be eligible for 
advancement to Master Chief.  This means the first boards where Senior 
Enlisted Academy completion will be required for selection board eligibility 
is the
FY-20 Master Chief Selection Boards.  Senior Chiefs should plan accordingly.

4.  Competitive Groups.  It is the responsibility of the candidate and 
command to ensure that the candidate is listed in the correct competitive 
group and that any issue is identified and forwarded to
PERS-802 prior to board convening.  The below listed ratings are separated 
into competitive groups as appropriate for active/FTS
components:
    a.  Culinary Specialist (CS), Logistics Specialist (LS),
        Yeoman (YN)
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - All Others
    b.  Cryptologic Technician (Interpretive)
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    c.  Electrician's Mate
        Group 1 - Nuclear (Submarine)
        Group 2 - Nuclear (Surface)
        Group 3 - All Others
    d.  Electronics Technician
        Group 1 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear NAV)
        Group 2 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear COM)
        Group 3 - Submarine (Nuclear)
        Group 4 - Surface (Nuclear)
        Group 5 - Surface (Others)
    e.  Fire Controlman
        Group 1 - All Others
        Group 2 - AEGIS
    f.  Machinist's Mate (MM)
        Group 1 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear AUX)
        Group 2 - Submarine (Non-Nuclear WEPS)
        Group 3 - Nuclear (Submarine)
        Group 4 - Nuclear (Surface)
        Group 5 - All Others
    g.  Musician (MU)
        Group 1 - Special Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band
    h.  Navy Career Counselor
        Group 1 - Career Recruiter Force
        Group 2  Fleet
    i.  Navy Diver
        Group 1  Master Diver (5341)
        Group 2  First Class Diver (5342)

5.  Record review and communication with the E8/9 Selection Board.
    a.  It is the responsibility of the candidate and command to ensure that 
the candidates Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) field codes 30 38 and 
Performance Summary Record (PSR) are up-to- date.  Candidates should not 
include items in their LTB that are already included in their OMPF or PSR 
unless the OMPF version is unreadable or the PSR is incorrect.  Candidates 
should check their evaluation continuity via BUPERS Online (BOL).  Any 
evaluation gaps should be resolved by either submitting the missing 
evaluations or a statement in lieu of missing report per chapter 17 of 
reference (e) in the candidates LTB.
    b.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual Sailor 
and must be accompanied under the candidates signed LTB.  Commands are not 
authorized to submit a message to NPC requesting information be presented to 
the board.  Third party correspondence is any communication to the board 
which is not accompanied by the candidates signed LTB and will not be 
permitted.
This supersedes reference (a).  Information received that is not under a 
signed LTB or not received by NPC Customer Service Center
(CSC) by the established deadline will not be presented to the board.  To 
verify receipt of your LTB, go to https://ahdsedstws16.
ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC CSC.
    c.  The time and date LTBs are received in the NPC CSC inbox (central 
time zone) is the time and date used for deadline verification.  Although 
late LTBs may be accepted by the NPC CSC, they will not be presented to the 
board.
    d.  All LTBs must contain the Sailors full name and full Social Security 
Number.  Additionally, this information must be affixed and legible on all 
enclosures submitted.  LTBs should be on plain white paper, paper clipped (no 
staples, binders, folders or tabs) and submitted under signed cover letter to 
the president of the board.
Candidates must verify that the correct board number is on their signed cover 
letter.  The board numbers are 205 for SELRES E8/9,
206 for FTS E8/9, 210 for AC E9, and 235 for AC E8.
    e.  The preferred method for submission of a LTB is by encrypted email to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
Personally Identifiable Information.  Trouble with file encryption or 
certificate issues does not justify a late LTB.
    f.  If the candidate is unable to send an encrypted e-mail, they may 
utilize the safe access file exchange (SAFE) website at 
https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/safe to transmit their LTB to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  In order for the LTBs to be considered by the 
board, the NPC CSC must receive the e-mail notification of the file upload 
from SAFE before the LTB deadline.
    g.  If unable to email or use the SAFE website, candidates may use 
regular mail to the addresses below:
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized IRR E8/9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-17 Reserve E8/9 Selection Board #205
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (2) FTS E8/9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-17 Reserve E8/9 Selection Board #206
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (3) Active E9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-17 Active E9 Selection Board #210
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (4) Active E8 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-17 Active E8 Selection Board #235
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
     h.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
     i.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB, vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.
Although multiple LTBs are authorized, candidates should not duplicate 
previously sent information.
     j.  The LTB deadline still applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.
If a candidate is working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be 
selection board eligible prior to the board convening date, they may submit a 
LTB prior to the deadline.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BOL to authorized command representatives prior to the release of the 
official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will be published by 
NETPDTC within 30 days of both reserve and active selection board results 
being released via NAVADMIN.
Educational Services Officers, who are registered users, may access results 
through the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) website 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil and individual Sailors may access personal 
profile sheets on Navy Knowledge Online https://www.nko.
navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-center.

7.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers- 
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers- 
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

8.  Board members and recorders
    a.  AC commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
AC selection board.
    b.  FTS commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
RC selection board.  SELRES commanders and lieutenant commanders are 
encouraged to contact commander, Navy Reserve Forces Command via their 
community leaders if they are interested in serving on the RC selection 
board.
    c.  AC and RC master chiefs are encouraged to apply to serve on the 
selection boards.  There are no restrictions preventing AC members from 
serving on RC selection boards or RC members from serving on AC selection 
boards.
    d.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders if not eligible.  In addition, senior chief 
petty officers may apply to be a member on either the RC or AC E7 boards 
only.  Petty officers (E6 and below) may not serve on the boards in any 
capacity, no exceptions.
    e.  Officers shall complete the Officer Selection Board Member/ Recorder 
Nomination form (NAVPERS 1400/5) found at http://www.npc.
navy.mil/bupers-npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx
    f.  Enlisted applicants shall complete the Enlisted Selection Board 
Member/Recorder Application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) found at 
http://www.npc.navy.mil/bupers-npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages
/GeneralInformation.aspx

9.  Points of Contact
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center: 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672 or via e-mail 
at UASKNPC@NAVY.MIL
    b.  Selection board eligibility (PERS-802):
        - Mr. David Lanham (Branch Head):  david.b.lanham(at)navy.
          mil
        - Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn (AC):  elizabeth.vaughn(at)navy.mil
        - Ms. Dorothy Harris (FTS/SELRES):  dorothy.harris(at)navy.
          mil

10.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
