UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 121550Z FEB 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 027/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/FY-19 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS 
FOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/131544ZDEC07//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAV/15NOV16//
REF/D/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//
REF/E/DOC/BUMED/8MAR17//
REF/F/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/13MAY13//
REF/G/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/011557ZFEB17//
REF/H/DOC/BUPERS/1MAY15//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 336/07, ADMINISTRATION OF THE NAVY-WIDE ADVANCEMENT EXAM 
FOR SAILORS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN, AND THE HORN OF AFRICA. 
REF C IS OPNAVINST 1220.1E, CHANGING OR REMOVING NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION 
CODES FOR NUCLEAR PROPULSION PLAN PERSONNEL.  
REF D IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONAL SPECIAL SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION 
REQUIREMENTS.  
REF E IS MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT (MANMED), NAVMED P-117.  
REF F IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1220-040, SUBMARINE QUALIFICATIONS DESIGNATION 
FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS.  
REF G IS NAVADMIN 021/17, ESTABLISHMENT OF YEOMAN (SUBMARINE), LOGISTICS 
SPECIALIST (SUBMARINE), CULINARY SPRCIALIST (SUBMARINE) AND FIRE CONTROLMAN 
(AEGIS) SERVICE RATINGS.
REF H IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility, communication to 
the boards, and board member or recorder application procedures for the FY-19 
Navy Active-Duty and Reserve enlisted advancement selection boards for chief 
petty officer (CPO). The Reserve Component (RC) board will consider personnel 
serving on active duty as Full Time Support (FTS) and Selected Reserve 
(SELRES), to include those serving on voluntary and involuntary recall and 
mobilization orders.  Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve personnel are 
considered under the SELRES requirements for advancement.

2.  Timeline
    a.  28 February 2018:  Individual Augmentation evaluations used for Time-
In-Rate (TIR) waivers must have an ending date by this date and must be 
available to the board.
    b.  21 April 2018:  RC candidates changing ratings must be in their new 
rating by this date to be considered for selection in the new rating.
    c.  30 April 2018:  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline for the RC E7 
selection board.
    d.  21 May 2018:  RC E7 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to candidates records prior to this date.
    e.  25 May 2018:  Active Component (AC) board candidates changing rating 
must be in their new rating by this date to be considered for selection in 
the new rating.
    f.  4 June 2018:  LTB deadline to the AC E7 selection board.
    g.  8 June 2018:  RC E7 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    h.  25 June 2018:  AC E7 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to candidates records prior to this date.
    i.  20 July 2018:  AC E7 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

3.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a) and this NAVADMIN prior to the 
scheduled board convening date.  All requirements must be reflected in the 
enlisted master file prior to the board convening.  Requirements achieved or 
posted to a candidates record after the scheduled board convening date will 
be considered late and not make a candidate eligible for the regularly 
scheduled board or entitle a candidate for an enlisted special selection 
board.  The authoritative source to determine selection board eligibility is 
the profile sheet.  The AC/FTS cycle is 238 and the SELRES cycle is 102.  
Because eligibility status can change without direct notification, candidates 
should verify their profile sheet on a continuous basis and commands must 
verify their Exam Status Verification Report (ESVR) weekly through the 
projected board adjourn date.  The profile sheet and ESVR are updated as 
changes are processed by Navy Personnel Command (NPC) PERS-802 Boards Reserve 
Enlisted/Reserve Officer.
    a.  The candidate shares equal responsibility with their parent command 
to ensure:
        (1) The candidates name appears on the selection board eligibility 
list.
        (2) The candidate is listed in the correct competitive group.
        (3) The candidates Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) codes 30 - 
38 and Performance Summary Record (PSR) are up-to-date.
    b.  If necessary, take the following actions in line with reference (a):
        (1) If an otherwise eligible candidate was not able to participate in 
the CPO advancement examination or obtain an examination waiver in line with 
reference (b), the candidate and the command must submit an exception to 
policy request (waiving the exam) to OPNAV N132 Enlisted Force Shaping Plans 
and Policies Division.  This request should be submitted not later than 1 
week after the scheduled substitute examination deadline.  If approved, the 
candidate and the command must take appropriate action to ensure the 
candidate receives a profile sheet reflecting selection board eligible prior 
to the board convening date.
        (2) If an eligible candidate is not listed on the selection board 
eligibility list, mail or e-mail a completed Advancement in Rate or Change in 
Rating worksheet (NETPDC 1430/3 Rev 06-16) along with a letter of transmittal 
to Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center (NETPDC) N321 
and NPC PERS-802.
        (3) If listed candidates are ineligible or later become ineligible, 
submit a message to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting the candidates 
eligibility be invalidated and provide explanation for invalidation.  In line 
with paragraph 721b of reference (a), advancement recommendation withdrawal 
must be completed and documented prior to transmitting the message.
        (4) If candidates are validated in the wrong competitive category, 
submit a message notification to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 detailing the 
discrepancy.
        (5) If candidates are invalidated and later regain eligibility, 
submit a message to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting validation of 
eligibility status and provide explanation.
    c.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent evaluation will be invalidated.  Evaluations that restore a 
recommendation for advancement must be made available to the selection board 
prior to the board convening date.
    d.  In line with reference (a), the Terminal Eligibility Date used to 
compute TIR is 1 January 2019.  TIR date must be on or before l January 2016.  
If a TIR waiver is granted, the evaluation used to grant the TIR waiver must 
be available to the board.
    e.  High Year Tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver for the current 
paygrade must be 1 September 2018 or later.  HYT waivers must be approved 
prior to the board convening.  Candidates who will be at HYT on 1 September 
2018 for the next higher paygrade are ineligible for advancement, regardless 
of any approved HYT waiver.
    f.  SELRES candidates who have submitted a request to NPC for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) on a date prior to 
their mandated HYT are ineligible for advancement. Members who were validated 
as Selection Board Eligible (SBE) and have submitted a request for voluntary 
transfer to the retired reserve (with or without pay) may regain SBE status 
provided disapproval of the original request or cancellation of previously 
approved request is adjudicated at NPC prior to selection board convening 
date.  Otherwise, they are ineligible.  Commands must revalidate members 
whose disapproved or cancelled retirement authorization is adjudicated prior 
to selection board convening date, by sending an e-mail with reason for 
revalidation to NPC PERS-802.
    g.  Members who have submitted voluntary Fleet Reserve 
(FLTRES)/retirement requests to NPC are not eligible.  Voluntary FLTRES are 
those not mandated by HYT.  Requests due to HYT are eligible for advancement 
and selection board consideration provided the HYT date for the present 
paygrade is 1 September 2018 or later in line with (a).  An approved or 
pending voluntary FLTRES/retirement request must be successfully disapproved, 
canceled, or modified to an involuntary date prior to the board convening to 
render a candidate selection board eligible.
    h.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
to Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program (MECP), Medical 
Service Corps (MSC) and Judge Advocate Generals Corps in-service procurement 
programs remain eligible for advancement consideration.  Selection to any 
other officer commissioning program renders candidates ineligible.  Commands 
are required to request those candidates be invalidated by NPC PERS-802.
    i.  In line with reference (c), nuclear candidates who are assigned navy 
enlisted classification (NEC) 3359/3389 upon transfer from a nuclear 
propulsion plant operator to a non-nuclear billet at sea or ashore, or to 
duty under instruction including special college education programs, are 
ineligible for advancement.  This includes nuclear candidates transferred to 
a STA-21 duty station.
    j.  Security Clearance.  Candidates in a rating requiring a security 
clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication issued by the 
Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility, and it must be reflected 
properly in Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) prior to board 
convening.  If the candidates commanding officer (CO) grants an interim 
clearance, JPAS must be updated prior to board convening.  Refer to reference 
(d) for additional guidance.  Sailors who have a clearance must maintain that 
clearance eligibility.  Ratings requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, 
AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, 
FC, FCA, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, LN, MA, MC, MN, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, and YN, 
as well as all nuclear and submarine ratings.  This guidance supersedes 
reference (a).
    k.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  SPI 
for BRCL 32 candidates must be verified via the Billet Based Distribution 
system.  BRCL 32 on active duty orders with a blank SPI code is invalid.  
Commands must correct the error via the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel 
System or the Sailor may seek relief by petitioning the Board for Correction 
of Naval Records (BCNR).  Sailors whose SPI code is invalid as of the board 
convening date will be invalidated.
    l.  Refer to references (a) and (b) regarding examination options for 
Sailors who are pending deployment to, or are deployed and operating in, 
Iraq, Afghanistan, or the Horn of Africa. Commands must submit the command 
letter of transmittal in line with reference (a).  The in-theater selection 
board eligibility waiver is not an automatic process.
    m.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements. Candidates must 
meet special requirements (citizenship, medical, etc.) for certain ratings as 
outlined in paragraph 204 of reference (a).  Required NECs listed below must 
be posted in the enlisted master file prior to the regular scheduled board 
convening date. NECs that post to the enlisted master file after the regular 
scheduled board convening date, even with a prior date, will not entitle a 
candidate to a special selection board.  Commands must verify and submit a 
message to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting invalidation of those 
selection board eligible candidates who no longer meet the qualifications 
listed in reference (a) or below by the scheduled board convening date.
        (1) Air Traffic Controller (AC) personnel must possess a valid 
Federal Aviation Administration 7220-1 ATCS Certificate and meet requirements 
established in reference (e).
        (2) Aerographers Mate (AG) personnel must complete the Aerographers 
Mate Class C-1 course and hold NEC 7412.
        (3) To ensure the best possible candidates are selected for
Aviation Electronics Technician (AT) CPO, AT (Intermediate) and AT 
(Organizational) board eligible personnel are merged into one competitive 
group.
        (4) Cryptologic Technician Interpretive (CTI) personnel must achieve 
a minimum of L2/R2 on the most recent Defense Language Proficiency Test 
(DLPT) in their primary language, as assigned by their CO, within 12 months 
of LTB deadline for E7 selection boards. However, a CTI who achieves a 
maximum of L3/R3 on the most recent DLPT in their primary language, as 
assigned by their CO, within 24 months of LTB deadline for E7 selection 
boards will be eligible for advancement.  Acceptable documentation of DLPT 
scores includes an evaluation with language scores or DA330 form forwarded to 
the board via the candidates LTB.  Any CTI whose primary language DLPT has
expired must possess a valid "Inability to Test" waiver from the Navy 
Language, Regional Expertise, and Culture Office (OPNAV N13F) in order to 
participate in the advancement cycle and be considered by the board.
        (5) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel must hold the Master 
EOD Technician NEC 5337.
        (6) Navy Diver (ND) personnel must hold the first class diver NEC 
5342.
        (7) Nuclear Trained personnel:
            (a) Submarine Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor 
NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, 3366).  Additionally, these personnel must have 
qualified as Engineering Watch Supervisor (EWS). Acceptable documentation of 
EWS qualification includes an evaluation with EWS documented or a letter from 
the candidates command forwarded to the board via the candidates LTB.
            (b) Surface Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC 
(3393, 3394, 3395, 3396).  Additionally, these personnel must have qualified 
as EWS or Propulsion Plant Watch Supervisor (PPWS).  Acceptable documentation 
of EWS or PPWS qualification includes an evaluation with EWS or PPWS 
documented or a letter from the candidates command forwarded to the board via 
the candidates LTB.
        (8) Non-Nuclear submarine Sailors must be designated as either SS, 
SU, or SQ in line with reference (f) as of the board convening date to be 
eligible.  Candidates designated as SG or SP are not eligible for 
advancement.
    n.  Canvasser recruiter personnel are ineligible for advancement to E7.
    o.  With the establishment of the new Culinary Specialist (Submarine) 
(CSS), Logistics Specialist (Submarine) (LSS), Yeoman (Submarine) (YNS), and 
Fire Controlman (Aegis) (FCA) service ratings, the CS, LS, YN, and FC general 
ratings will no longer be grouped for the AC.  Refer to reference (g) for 
additional information.

4.  Competitive Groups.  Candidates and commands share responsibility to 
ensure that the candidate is listed in the correct competitive group and that 
any issue is identified and forwarded to NPC PERS-802 prior to board 
convening.  The below listed AC ratings are separated into competitive groups 
as applicable to the candidates component:
    a.  CTI:
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    b.  EMN, ETN, MMN:
        Group 1  Submarine
        Group 2  Surface
    c.  MU:
        Group 1 - Premier Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band

5.  Record review and communication with the E7 selection board.
    a.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the candidates signed LTB.
        (1) The LTB may address any information that the candidate considers 
important.  Candidates should not include items in their LTB that are already 
included in their OMPF or PSR unless the OMPF version is unreadable or the 
PSR is incorrect.  An LTB simply stating that the candidates OMPF and PSR 
have been verified and are correct is not desired.  Any evaluation gaps 
should be resolved by either submitting the missing evaluations via an LTB or 
a statement in lieu of missing report in line with chapter 17 of reference 
(h).
        (2) The LTB must be either digitally signed using the candidates 
military identity certificate or a hand-written signature.  Unsigned LTBs 
will not be presented to the board.
        (3) Third party correspondence is any communication to the board that 
is not accompanied by the candidates signed LTB and will not be presented to 
the board.  Commands are not authorized to submit a message to NPC requesting 
information be presented to the board.  This supersedes reference (a).
    b.  Information received that is not under a signed LTB or not received 
by NPC Customer Service Center (CSC) by the established deadline listed in 
paragraph 2 will not be presented to the board. The time and date LTBs are 
received in the NPC CSC inbox (Central Time Zone) is the time and date used 
for deadline verification.  To verify receipt of an LTB, go to
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC 
CSC.  Although late or unsigned LTBs may be accepted by the NPC CSC, they 
will not be presented to the board, and no feedback will be provided to the 
candidate.
    c.  All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the candidates full name and 
full social security number.  Candidates must verify that the correct board 
number is on their signed cover letter.  The board numbers are 335 for 
SELRES, 336 for FTS, and 360 for AC.
    d.  The preferred method to submit an LTB is by encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
personally identifiable information.  File encryption and certificate issues 
are not valid reasons for late submissions.
    e.  If unable to e-mail, candidates may send regular mail to the 
addresses below.  Mailed LTBs should be on plain white paper and paper 
clipped (no staples, binders, folders or tabs).
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (PERS-1)
            President
            FY-19 Reserve E7 Selection Board 335
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington TN 38055
        (2) FTS E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (PERS1)
            President
            FY-19 Reserve E7 Selection Board 336
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington TN 38055
        (3) Active E7 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (PERS1)
            President
            FY-19 Active E7 Selection Board 360
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington TN 38055
    f.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    g.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB. Although multiple LTBs 
are authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent information.
    h.  The same LTB deadline applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.  A candidate who is 
working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date may submit an LTB.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BUPERS Online (BOL) to authorized command representatives prior to the 
release of the official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will 
be published by NETPDC within 30 days of both RC and AC selection board 
results being released via NAVADMIN. Educational services officers who are 
registered users may access results through the Navy Enlisted Advancement 
System website https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.  Individual candidates may
view/download profile sheets via a .mil domain computer at
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASrpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Special Selection Boards (SSB):
    a.  SSBs may be approved for candidates who have demonstrated they were 
precluded from consideration at the selection board or were considered at the 
selection board in the incorrect competitive category and the administrative 
error was beyond the candidates control and not the direct or indirect result 
of their error, delay, or omission.  SSB requests are to be submitted in line 
with paragraph 102d of reference (a) to NPC PERS-802.
    b.  All SSB requests must be received by NPC PERS-802 no later than 2 
years after the date the contested board results were made public.  Requests 
received more than 2 years after the date the contested board results were 
made public will be treated as untimely and will normally be denied by Deputy 
Chief of Naval Personnel.  If a request is delayed more than 2 years and 
justification can be provided for the delay (BCNR or Inspector General (IG) 
action), the request will be considered, but it may be denied if the reason 
for the delay is due to submitting the initial BCNR or IG request late.

8.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

9.  Board members and recorders
    a.  AC commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if interested in serving as a member on the AC 
selection board.
    b.  FTS commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailers if interested in serving as a member on the RC 
selection board.  SELRES commanders and lieutenant commanders are encouraged 
to contact Commander Navy Reserve Forces Command via their community leaders 
if interested in serving on the RC selection board.
    c.  AC and RC master chiefs are encouraged to apply to serve on the 
selection boards.  There are no restrictions preventing AC members from 
serving on RC selection boards or RC members from serving on AC selection 
boards.
    d.  Senior chief petty officers and CPOs (to include frocked) who are not 
eligible for the selection board may serve as recorders. In addition, senior 
chief petty officers may apply to be a member on either the RC or AC E7 
board.  Petty officers (E6 and below) may not serve on the boards in any 
capacity.
    e.  Officers shall complete the Officer Selection Board Member/Recorder 
Nomination form (NAVPERS 1400/5) found at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx.
    f.  Enlisted applicants shall complete the Enlisted Selection Board 
Member/Recorder Application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) which can be found at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx and route it through their 
force master chief (FORCM).  Personnel stationed at commands that do not fall 
under a FORCM may have their senior enlisted leader (SEL) or command master 
chief (CMC) forward the NAVPERS 1400/2 directly to Mr. Donald Patrick 
Marshall, Navy Personnel Command PERS-805, at donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil.  
Do not use normal administrative routing.  Only route the application to the
SEL/CMC/CO/FORCM and NPC PERS-805.  If the applicant is unsure of their 
circumstance, contact Mr. Marshall via e-mail donald.p.marshall(at)navy.mil.

10.  Points of Contact:
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center at 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672, or e-mail 
at uasknpc(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Selection board eligibility (NPC PERS-802):
        (1) Ms. Linda Coffield, Branch Head, at (901) 874-3171, or e-mail at 
npc_enlisted_selbd_elig(at)navy.mil.
        (2) AC - Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn at (901) 874-3217, or e-mail at 
npc_enlisted_selbd_elig(at)navy.mil
        (3) RC - Ms. Dorothy Harris at (901) 874-4435, or e-mail at
npc_enlisted_selbd_elig(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NETPDC (N321) at (850) 473-6148/DSN 753, or e-mail at
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

11.  This message will remain in effect until canceled or superseded.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
