UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 212213Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO USCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
DIRNSA FT GEORGE G MEADE MD

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 225/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/SEP//

SUBJ/CALL FOR APPLICANTS FOR THE COMPUTER NETWORK OPERATIONS DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM (CNODP) CLASS OF 2019//

REF/A/DOC/NSA/JUL/NOTAL//

AMPN/REF A IS NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (NSA) CALL FOR CNODP APPLICANTS FOR 
THE CLASS OF 2019.// POC/LT NATHANIEL NEWSOM/FCC-C10F/TEL: (443) 634-4567, 
EMAIL:
USFF_FCC_C10F_NSAH_CNODP(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This is a call for the Computer Network Operations Development 
Program (CNODP), class of 2019.  The CNODP is comprised of both the System 
and Network Interdisciplinary Program (SNIP) and the Global Network 
Exploitation and Vulnerability Analyst (GNEVA) Development Program (GDP).  
This is an opportunity for a select group of highly technically inclined 
individuals to further develop their skills in the areas of secure system 
design, vulnerability analysis, Computer Network Defense (CND), and Computer 
Network Exploitation (CNE).  The goal of the program is to develop a cadre of 
technical leaders who will improve Department of Defense (DoD) and service 
Computer Network Operations
(CNO) capabilities.  The program is a technically demanding, three-year tour, 
individually tailored to each applicant to best capitalize on his/her 
expertise.  The SNIP and GDP executives expect the next class to start in 
July 2016, with a report not later than
(NLT) date of 18 April 2016 to allow sufficient time for in-processing, 
orientation, and security clearance processing.

2.  Ideal CNODP candidates should have the following desired
qualifications:
    a.  Bachelor's degree plus advanced courses or equivalent experience in 
the areas of computer engineering, computer science, electronic and 
electrical engineering, or applied mathematics.
    b.  Exceptional academic performance and professional accomplishments, as 
well as a demonstrated interest in and ability to perform technically 
oriented, hands-on oriented work.
    c.  Well-developed oral and written communications skills.
    d.  Working knowledge in one or more telecommunications or computer 
network disciplines (computer hardware, software, or networks).
    e. Well-qualified enlisted, warrant, and commissioned officers will be 
given equal consideration. For service cryptologic element
(SCE) civilians, the desired grade is GG/GS7-12. Previous assignments should 
include experience in telecommunications operations, CNO, SIGINT collection 
operations, information security (INFOSEC)/ information assurance (IA), 
and/or research and development (R&D).
    f.  Demonstrated programming skills in C or C++.
    g.  Selected applicants must possess a TS/SCI security clearance and 
current, counter-intelligence (CI) polygraph before the class start date of 
11 July 2016.

3.  Please ensure widest dissemination to include, cryptologic, intelligence, 
communications and computer science, scientific, engineering, acquisition, 
and operations fields.  Please note, there may be an active duty service 
commitment upon graduation.

4.  Each service is limited to a maximum of 15 applicants to allow for 
participants from other DoD agencies, while maintaining a small class size.

5.  Selection will be based on a thorough review of each application package 
and an interview of the top applicants by the NSA selection board.  The 
application package should consist of the
following:
  a.  Documentation that demonstrates technical competency.
        (1) Officers:  Transcripts, ODC, OSR, complete PSR, and any fitness 
reports detailing technical competency.
        (2) Enlisted:  Transcripts, complete PSR, and any evaluations 
detailing technical competency.
        (3) Civilians:  Transcripts and any performance assessments reporting 
on technical competency.
    b.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's Commanding Officer.
    c.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's supervisor attesting to 
his/her technical skills and abilities.
    d.  An optional letter of recommendation at the applicant's discretion.
    e.  A letter from the applicant (two pages or less) answering the 
following:
        (1) Why do you think that CNODP is the right choice for you?
What goals do you wish to accomplish in CNODP?
        (2) What experience with programming languages do you have?
List each programming language and your familiarity with it, how.
long you coded in it, and the year you last coded in it.  Only include 
languages for which you have actually written (or modified) code.  Include 
any assembly, high-level and scripting languages.
        (3) Other than programming language expertise listed above, how does 
your experience and training relate to the core fields (hardware, software, 
and networks)?
        (4) Teaming:  Describe a teaming experience that you have had where 
you were a member and a teaming experience where you were a leader.  Describe 
your role on the team and how you contributed.
You may include experiences from work or from school.  In your answer, 
describe what aspects you liked and disliked.  If you have had any teaming 
experiences that did not go perfectly, please describe what problems were 
encountered and what measures were taken (e.g., a team member not 
understanding their part or not pulling their weight, conflict within the 
team, etc.).  Describe what role you had in any measures that may have been 
taken.
       (5) Give one example of a project where you worked by yourself; 
briefly describe what you accomplished and how you approached the problem 
(use an example that you feel shows your ability to adapt and problem solve).

6.  Applications for the Navy should be sent to the U.S. Fleet Cyber 
Command/U.S. Tenth Fleet, Point of Contact (POC):  LT Nathaniel Newsom at 
usff_fcc_c10f_nsah_cnodp(at)navy.mil for review and prioritization NLT 16 
October 2015.  Each nominating organization will be expected to pay for the 
TAD costs of the applicant to attend this interview, which will occur in the 
December 2015/January 2016 time frame (videoconferencing will be used 
wherever possible).

7.  Commands are strongly urged to consider nominating their best qualified 
personnel for these worthwhile programs.  This is an outstanding opportunity 
to give future technical Computer Network Operations leaders the skills to 
help lead the Navy in this vital area.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. R. Braun, USN.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
