UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 111549Z OCT 19 MID110000062418U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 233/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT//

SUBJ/FY-20 SENIOR ENLISTED CONTINUATION BOARD (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/1MAY15//

REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/8MAY18//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.  REF B 
IS MILPERSMAN 1160-120, HIGH YEAR TENURE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the Fiscal Year
(FY) 2020 Senior Enlisted Continuation Board (SECB) on
9 December 2019.  The SECB will carefully consider, without prejudice or 
partiality, the record of every eligible candidate and identify Sailors whose 
service is no longer in the best interest of the Navy.  Among many factors 
reviewed, documented misconduct and/or substandard performance within the 
past 3 years will be considered to determine whether to continue a board-
eligible Sailor.  Examples include, but are not limited to, receipt of an 
evaluation with an individual trait grade of 2.0 or below or any documented 
circumstance related to performance that results in a Sailors inability to 
perform in the rating or required duties (e.g., loss of a security clearance 
in a rating that requires a member to maintain continuous eligibility).

2.  Eligibility
    a.  Time in service
        (1) Active Component (AC) and Full-Time Support (FTS) E-7 through E-9 
personnel with at least 19 years of active service computed from their 
active-duty service date to 31 August 2019 and
3 years time-in-rate (TIR) as of 31 August 2019 will be considered by the 
SECB.
        (2) Selected Reserve (SELRES) and Voluntary Training Unit
(VTU) E-7 through E-9 personnel with at least 20 years of qualifying service 
as of 31 August 2019 and 3 years TIR as of 31 August 2019 will be considered 
by the SECB.
    b.  Fleet Reserve/retirement approval
        (1) All personnel who, as of 16 November 2019, have either a Navy 
Personnel Command (NAVPERSCOM) final authorization to transfer to the Fleet 
Reserve or an approved request to retire on or before
1 September 2020 will be exempt from the SECB.  Approved requests cannot be 
rescinded after 16 November 2019.
        (2) Personnel meeting all other eligibility requirements who have a 
NAVPERSCOM approved transfer to the Fleet Reserve, retirement or Retired 
Reserve (with or without pay) after 1 September 2020 will be considered by 
the SECB.
    c.  Sailors selected for chief warrant officer (CWO) by the FY-
20 Limited Duty Officer and Chief Warrant Officer In-Service Procurement 
Board held in January 2019 or selected by the FY-20 advancement boards are 
not eligible and will not be considered by the SECB.  CWO selectees who 
decline appointment or are removed from the selection list prior to 15 
November 2019 and meet all other SECB eligibility criteria will be 
considered.

3.  Critical Skills Retention Bonus (CSRB)/Selective Retention Bonus
(SRB)
    a.  AC or FTS Sailors not selected for continuation shall have the 
unearned portion of any CSRB recouped based on the date of transfer to the 
Fleet Reserve or retirement, whichever occurs first.
For questions regarding recoupment, contact Military Pay and Compensation 
Branch (OPNAV N130D) at nxag_n130d(at)navy.mil.
    b.  SELRES Sailors not selected for continuation shall have the unearned 
portion of any SRB recouped based on the date of transfer to the Retired 
Reserve.  For questions regarding recoupment, contact LCDR Robert Brown 
(CNRFC N11) at (757) 322-2262, or e-mail at robert.l.brown16(at)navy.mil.

4.  Timeline of Events
    a.  Immediately following the release of this NAVADMIN, NAVPERSCOM, 
Selection Board Eligibility Branch (PERS-802) will forward the SECB 
eligibility list to Naval Education and Training Professional Development 
Center (NETPDC (N321)).  NETPDC (N321) will then publish the names of the 
eligible candidates to the Navy Enlisted Advancement System website, 
accessible by command designated personnel at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-
advancement-center/my-eso.  Individual candidates may view their SECB 
eligibility at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-advancement-
center/my-advancement.
    b.  24 October 2019
        (1) By this date, if an eligible candidate is not listed, commands 
must submit their name to NAVPERSCOM (PERS-802) requesting the member be 
added to the SECB eligibility list.  Requests for subsequent additions will 
not be approved.
        (2) Submit eligibility changes via e-mail to NAVPERSCOM
(PERS-802) at NPC_Enlisted_SELBD_Elig.fct(at)navy.mil.
    c.  No later than 15 November 2019
        (1) Members and commands must verify the eligibility list and ensure 
any Sailor not eligible is identified and removed from the board by 15 
November 2019.  Absent action, these Sailors will remain eligible for the 
board and will forfeit any waiver or appeal process.
        (2) Commands shall verify the eligibility list weekly until
15 November 2019 as the list will be updated while NAVPERSCOM (PERS-
802) reviews eligibility issues.
        (3) Sailors who are on the eligibility list as of
16 November 2019 will be reviewed by the SECB.  Requests for subsequent 
removal will not be approved.
    d.  18 November 2019.  Letters to the board (LTB) deadline.
LTBs must be received by NAVPERSCOM, MyNavy Career Center by 2359 Central 
Standard Time.  Additional guidance on submitting LTBs, waivers, readiness 
appeals, counseling and command responsibilities, can be found at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning.
    e.  9 December 2019.  FY-20 SECB convenes.
    f.  Once results are released, commanding officers (CO) will be notified 
via PERSONAL FOR NAVADMIN that the results have been posted on BOL for 
command access only.  COs have 7 calendar days to notify and counsel those 
members not selected for continuation.  Sailors not selected to continue are 
ineligible for further advancement consideration by enlisted selection or in-
service procurement boards.  Unless approved for a readiness appeal, Sailors 
not selected for continuation by this board are ineligible for consideration 
by a future continuation board and shall be separated in line with the 
guidelines in paragraphs g through i.
    g.  16 March 2020
        (1) Last day for Sailors not selected to continue to submit a Fleet 
Reserve, retirement or Retired Reserve (with or without pay) request to 
NAVPERSCOM, Enlisted Retirement Branch (PERS-836) for AC and FTS or 
NAVPERSCOM, Reserve Separations Branch (PERS-913) for SELRES and VTU.  
Sailors who are not selected to continue who had previously requested a Fleet 
Reserve date after 31 August 2020 or retirement date after 1 September 2020 
must submit a new request to the appropriate office for a Fleet Reserve date 
of 31 August 2020 or earlier, or retirement date of 1 September 2020 or 
earlier.
        (2) Last day for commands to submit operational waiver requests or 
readiness appeal requests for Sailors assigned to their command who were not 
selected to continue.  Refer to paragraph 5 for guidance on waivers and 
readiness appeals.
    h.  1 September 2020.  If not approved for an operational waiver, this is 
the last authorized effective date for Sailors not selected to continue to 
transition to the Fleet Reserve, retirement or Retired Reserve (with or 
without pay).
    i.  1 December 2020.  If approved for an operational waiver, this is the 
last authorized effective date for Sailors not selected to continue to 
transition to the Fleet Reserve, retirement or Retired Reserve (with or 
without pay).

5.  Waivers and readiness appeals.  Waivers or readiness appeals shall be 
requested only to mitigate a severe operational impact that could result in 
potential mission failure, not for the convenience of the Sailor or to allow 
for transition leave/temporary duty period.
    a.  Operational waivers
        (1) Operational waivers are limited to a maximum of 3 months.
        (2) AC and FTS operational waivers are routed via the first flag 
officer in the chain of command and approved by the Deputy Chief of Naval 
Personnel (DCNP).
        (3) SELRES and VTU operational waivers are routed via the echelon 4 
commander and approved by Commander, Navy Reserve Forces Command 
(COMNAVRESFORCOM) (N1).
        (4) Operational waiver format is available at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning.
    b.  Readiness appeals.  Readiness appeals shall be requested only to 
mitigate a severe readiness impact that cannot be resolved via an operational 
waiver, not for the convenience of the Sailor.
An approved readiness appeal will remove the Sailors non-selection for 
continuation.  A command may submit a readiness appeal with the concurrence 
of the Sailor via their respective chain of command as stipulated below.  
Readiness appeals are approved by the Chief of Naval Personnel (CNP).  
Readiness appeal format is available at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning.
        (1) Readiness appeals may only be initiated by the CO of a Sailor not 
selected for continuation.  Sailors who have been detached for cause, were 
awarded non-judicial punishment, courts- martial or have other adjudicated 
misconduct between 9 December 2016 and 9 December 2019 are not eligible to be 
considered for a readiness appeal.
        (2) A readiness appeal shall focus on the negative impact to unit or 
force readiness if the Sailor is separated, not for the convenience of the 
Sailor.
        (3) Route AC and FTS appeal requests via the administrative chain of 
command to the Type Commander (TYCOM).  If the TYCOM recommends approval, the 
request is forwarded to NAVPERSCOM, Post Selection Board Matters Branch 
(PERS-833) for AC and FTS for further routing to CNP for final disposition.
        (4) Route SELRES appeal requests through the administrative chain of 
command via COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1) to the TYCOM.  If the TYCOM recommends 
approval, the request is forwarded to NAVPERSCOM
(PERS-913) at brian.paramo(at)navy.mil for further routing to CNP for final 
disposition.
        (5) Route VTU appeal requests via the administrative chain of command 
to COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1).  If COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1) recommends approval, the 
request is forwarded to NAVPERSCOM (PERS-
913) at brian.paramo(at)navy.mil for further routing to CNP for final 
disposition.
        (6) If the TYCOM (AC, FTS or SELRES) or COMNAVRESFORCOM (N1)
(VTU) does not recommend approval, the request is disapproved and is returned 
to the requesting command.  The TYCOM or COMNAVRESFORCOM
(N1) will forward an electronic copy of disapprovals to NAVPERSCOM
(PERS-833) for record retention.
        (7) CNP decision is final and not subject to waiver or appeal to 
higher authority.
        (8) All Sailors who successfully appeal the non-selection for 
continuation remain eligible for a later SECB as well as standard Navy 
administrative separation processes.

6.  Board Membership.  Command Master Chiefs are encouraged to apply to 
become SECB members and non-eligible senior chief petty officers and chief 
petty officers are encouraged to apply to become SECB recorders.  Point of 
contact is NAVPERSCOM, Enlisted Continuation Boards Support Branch (PERS-805) 
at (901) 874-3223, or e-mail at pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil.  The application 
can be found at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning.

7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or cancelled, 
whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

