UNCLASSIFIED

IMMEDIATE

O 211200Z DEC 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 283/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/DEC//

SUBJ/NAVY RATING MODERNIZATION NEXT STEPS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces updates to the implementation effort to transform current Navy 
Enlisted Career Management processes.

2.  This NAVADMIN supersedes NAVADMIN 218/16 and directs the restoration of Navy Rating Titles.

3.  Our goals for modernizing the enlisted career development program - rating modernization - are to 
provide greater choices and flexibility for our Sailors with respect to detailing and training, to provide 
greater flexibility for the Navy in assigning highly trained personnel, and to increase professional 
alignment with civilian employers.  We strongly believe that providing this flexibility will make us a more 
capable Navy.

4.  Since we made the initial rating modernization announcement in September, the SECNAV, MCPON 
and I, along with other Navy leadership, have had the opportunity to speak with thousands of Sailors 
during our travels throughout the fleet.  The feedback from current and former Sailors has been 
consistent that there is wide support for the flexibility that the plan offers, but the removal of rating 
titles detracted from accomplishing our major goals.
Furthermore, there has been a solid body of thoughtful input that pointed out that there is a way to 
have the benefits of the rating modernization program without removing rating titles.

5.  I have been adamant that our Navy needs to be a fast-learning organization - that includes our 
leadership.  The Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority states that our most junior teammate may 
have the best idea and that we must be open to capturing that idea.  We have learned from you, and so 
effective immediately, all rating names are restored.

6.  This course correction doesn't mean our work is done - rating modernization will continue for all the 
right reasons.  Modernizing our industrial-age personnel system in order to provide Sailors choice and 
flexibility still remains a priority for us.  As we execute the rating modernization plan, more Sailors will 
have multiple occupational skill sets or ratings.  We will need to tackle the issue of managing rating 
names.  We will continue to involve Sailors throughout the fleet, using the rating modernization working 
group to figure out how to best do that.

7.  Every Fleet, Force, and Command Master Chief, and all Navy Counselors know how to provide input 
to our working groups.  You also have a direct line to send your ideas to me at 
"NavyRatingMod.fct@navy.mil."

8.  Learning faster requires having a plan, getting feedback, and quickly acting on that feedback.  This 
adjustment reflects our commitment to fast learning at every level.  As this process moves forward we 
will continue to assess our performance and correct our course as appropriate.

9.  Released by ADM J. M. Richardson, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
