UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 261233Z MAR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 069/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

SUBJ/ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ AND THE LEVANT (ISIL) SYMPATHIZERS 100 LIST//

RMKS/1.  As you are all aware, this week 36 of our shipmates' names and 
addresses were posted on a website claiming to be friendly to the Islamic 
State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) cause.  While Department of Defense (DoD) and 
Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) have not found evidence of 
operational planning or an imminent threat, there is little doubt that this 
gesture has caused concern and anxiety specifically for those on the list, 
their families and shipmates and more generally to the force.  To inform 
conversations with Sailors and their families, I want to address some of the 
most common concerns we're hearing across the Fleet.

2.  This incident is a reminder of the importance we individually have to 
place on our personal safety and operations security.  The guidance shared 
with Sailors in their sustained and cyclic training remains valid...stay 
aware, stay vigilant and be prudent about the information you share. Standing 
guidance for our web pages and command social media accounts remain valid as 
well--there is not a need to make a change.  Ongoing intelligence and law 
enforcement assessments continue to reinforce that sharing information 
smartly and with due caution remains safe—this includes dealings with vetted 
U.S. and international media.  If anything changes or new intelligence 
becomes available, we will pass that information via the appropriate 
channels.

3.  We serve in the most dynamic and powerful Navy on earth, made possible by 
our Sailors' efforts and the support of their families. Taking the time to 
discuss this issue, to place it in the appropriate context, will help ease 
anxiety and focus responsive effort on productive, appropriate and necessary 
measures. This approach serves our Sailors and their families best.

3.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

