UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 261623Z MAY 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 123/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FY-17 MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM SELECTION 
BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/DOC/BUMED/12MAY16//
REF/C/DOC/U.S.C./2JAN13//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS BUMED P-117, MANUAL OF THE 
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.  REF C IS 10 U.S.C. SECTION 6323, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT 
OFFICERS:  20 YEARS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the FY-17 Medical Service 
Corps (MSC) In-Service Procurement Program (IPP) selection board.  The MSC 
IPP will convene in the Fall of 2016.  MSC IPP provides a path for qualified, 
career-motivated, enlisted personnel to obtain a commission as an MSC 
officer.  Applications will be accepted for the following specialties:  
Health Care Administration (HCA), Environmental Health, Industrial Hygiene, 
Pharmacy, Physician Assistant (PA), Occupational Therapy, Social Work, and 
Radiation Health.

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors, Marines, and Navy 
Full-Time Support (FTS) personnel of any rating in pay grades E-5 through E-9 
at the time of application.  Reservists in an FTS status are eligible; 
reservists in any status other than FTS are not eligible.

3.  Application procedures and education requirements are outlined in 
reference (a), chapters 1, 2, and 6, and in this NAVADMIN.

4.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment and commissioning.  Age waivers will not be granted.

5.  Amplifying information for the FY-17 MSC IPP Board.
    a.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a Navy 
Nuclear Enlisted Classification (335x, 336x, 338x, 339x) and are applying for 
the FY-17 MSC IPP board must obtain conditional release from nuclear field 
duty prior to submitting their application for consideration for the FY-17 
board.  To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must submit a NAVPERS
1306/7, (rev 01-03), Enlisted Personnel Action Request to the Chief of Naval 
Operations Nuclear Propulsion Program Management Branch (N133) via their 
detailer.  The FY-17 MSC IPP Board will only consider nuclear enlisted 
candidates who have a conditional release included in their MSC IPP 
application.
    b.  For applicants not assigned to nuclear programs listed in paragraph 
5a:  Applicants under obligated training require a conditional release from 
their enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit a Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to 
their ECM.  The FY-17 MSC IPP board will only consider enlisted candidates 
who have a conditional release included in their program application.
    c.  Applicants must be worldwide assignable.  Per reference (a), chapter 
6 paragraph 3.e., applicants must meet precommissioning/accession physical 
standards for appointment as an MSC officer prescribed in reference (b), 
chapter 15.
    d.  American College Testing (ACT), Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), 
graduate record examination (GRE), graduate management aptitude test (GMAT), 
or applicable scores must be completed within five years of application due 
date.
    e.  College board SAT or ACT exam scores are required for all 
Environmental Health Officer (EHO), Radiation Health Officer (RHO) and 
Industrial Hygiene Officer (IHO) applicants requesting to complete a 
bachelors degree using military funding.  The minimum acceptable SAT score is 
1000 and the minimum ACT score is 42 (combined math and English).  
Application packages missing exam scores will not be considered by the board.
    f.  GRE scores are required for all applicants (EHO, RHO, IHO) requesting 
to complete a masters degree using military funding (excluding pharmacy).  
For non-masters prepared applicants, a GRE score of 1000 (pre August 2012 
exams) or 300 (post August 2012 exams) is required.  Application packages 
missing exam scores will not be considered by the board.
    g.  For applicants applying to the PA program, only SAT scores will be 
accepted.  The minimum acceptable SAT score is 1000 (minimum math 460).  
Applications with an SAT math score below 460 will not be considered by the 
board.
    h.  Pharmacy applicants must submit pharmacy college admission test 
(PCAT) scores.

6.  For HCA applicants, MSC IPP is not offering full-time out service 
training option for this board.  Applicants will be screened for selection to 
attend full-time in-service training in either the Army-Baylor University 
graduate program in HCA, more information is available at
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/navmedmpte/nmtc/pages/bayloruniversity.aspx or 
the masters in HCA and policy degree at the Uniformed Services University of 
the Health Sciences, more information is available at 
http://www.usuhs.mil/pmb/mhapcurriculum.html.  A GRE or GMAT score is 
required for all applicants irrespective of degrees currently held.  In 
addition, applicants are strongly encouraged to seek conditional letters of 
acceptance from one or both schools for inclusion in their IPP package.  If 
HCA applicants are selected this does not guarantee screening into one of the 
above graduate programs.

7.  For HCA applicants seeking entry grade credit upon selection, a masters 
degree must be obtained prior to June 2017, must have an emphasis in HCA, and 
must be accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies:  Commission on 
Accreditation of Health Care Management Education, more information is 
available at http://www.cahme.org; the Association to Advance Collegiate 
Schools of Business, more information is available at http://www.aacsb.edu; 
the Council on Education for Public Health, more information is available at 
http://www.ceph.org; National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and 
Administration, more information is available at http://www.naspaa.org.

8.  For PA applicants Medical Terminology is a required pre-requisite.  All 
pre-requisite course work must have been completed within the past 10 years.  
The application must be submitted via the online Unicas system to the 
University of Nebraska Medical Center at https://ipap.liaisoncas.com no later 
than 25 July 2016.  Note this is not the deadline for submission of an 
official MSC IPP application, only the applicants academic history.  
Applicants will be notified of their academic eligibility well before the 
official MSC IPP application deadline.

9.  Applicants for the Occupational Therapy program must have an acceptance 
letter to a master's degree program in occupational therapy that has been 
accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education, 
Visit http://www.aota.org for more information.

10.  Applicants for the 24 month Master of Social Work (MSW) internship must 
have a master's degree in social work from a graduate school of social work 
accredited by the Council of Social Work Education at http://www.cswe.org, 
with a completion date no later than June 2017.  Candidates with strong 
clinical backgrounds are preferred, with preference given to those able to 
demonstrate experience and proficiency in diagnosis and treatment, trauma, 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injury (TBI), and 
resiliency.  A licensed graduate social worker or equivalent is required for 
internship in states that license post-MSW social workers.

11.  For Social Work (MSW + Internship) applicants, MSC IPP is not offering a 
full-time out-service training option for this board; however, applicants 
will be screened for selection to attend the full-time in-service training at 
the Army/Fayetteville State University Master of Social Work (MSW) Program.  
More information is available online (http://www.uncfsu.edu/sw/degree-
programs/army-fsu-msw-program) or via phone at (210) 221-6887.  Requirements 
for consideration into the Army/Fayetteville State University MSW Program 
include:  a completed Fayetteville State University Graduate School 
application for admission, an undergraduate grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 
or higher, an official GRE score of 290 or higher (completed within five 
years of program start date), a personal statement of no more than five 
typed, double-spaced pages, and three letters of reference from professionals 
who can attest to the applicant's capabilities for successful performance in 
a graduate academic program, and three Fayetteville State University 
Recommendations for graduate studies forms.

12.  Per references (a) and (c), applicants are reminded that to be eligible 
for voluntary retirement, an applicant appointed as an officer is required to 
complete 20 years of active-duty service, with at least 10 years of service 
as an active commissioned officer.

13.  Applications must be postmarked no later than 1 September 2016 and 
mailed to:
     Commanding Officer
     Navy Medicine Professional Development Center
     8955 Wood Road
     Bldg 1 16th Floor, Rms 16141, 16148
     Bethesda, MD 20889-5628

All required documentation must be received no later than 23 September 2016.  
Incomplete applications received after this date will not be reviewed by the 
board.  Detailed application information can be found at 
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/nmpdc/professional-
Development/sitepages/medical%20service%20corps%20program%20mscipp-
pa.aspx.  A MARADMIN will outline conditional release procedures for active-
duty Marines who are selected to participate in the program.

14. Points of Contact:
    a.  Ms. Beverly Kemp, Navy Medical Professional Development Center, Code 
O3C HMDT at (301) 319-4520/DSN 285, or via e-mail at 
beverly.d.kemp.civ(at)mail.mil.
    b.  HM2 Ian Polage at (301) 295-0925/DSN 285 or via e-mail at
ian.m.polage.mil(at)mail.mil.

15.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2017.

16.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
