UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 021341Z NOV 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 255/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/NOV//

SUBJ/OPNAV REALIGNMENT:  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UNMANNED WARFARE SYSTEMS 
DIRECTORATE (OPNAV N99)//
Rmks/1.  To improve our ability to rapidly integrate unmanned warfare systems 
into the Fleet, Navy Headquarters staff is establishing the Unmanned Warfare 
Systems directorate (N99).  This new resource sponsor will:  a) identify, 
develop, and field unmanned technologies and systems that sustain and advance 
our warfighting capabilities; b) accelerate the development of unmanned 
prototypes and Fleet experimentation; c) improve our ability to develop new 
operational concepts that incorporate unmanned technologies into our 
warfighting capabilities; d) align our unmanned investment strategy to 
deliver future naval warfighting capabilities; and e) independently assess 
Navy's future unmanned warfighting capabilities.

2.  This staff realignment is informed by two previous studies that analyzed 
organizational models to focus OPNAV on what capabilities the Fleet needs to 
be effective, as well as improve the accountability for resourcing decisions 
at Echelon I.  The studies concluded that consolidation of procurement, 
manpower, training, and readiness resources under accountable resource 
sponsors would incentivize effective decision-making and better align OPNAV 
to the Navy's warfighting and readiness needs.  The creation of OPNAV N99 
directly and most effectively addresses the conclusions and recommendations 
of these studies with respect to unmanned systems.

3.  The Director, Unmanned Warfare Systems (N99) will assume the 
responsibility for the rapid development and integration of unmanned warfare 
systems across the portfolios currently resourced by the Directors of 
Expeditionary Warfare (N95), Surface Warfare (N96), Undersea Warfare (N97), 
Air Warfare (N98), and the Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Information 
Dominance and Director of Naval Intelligence (N2/N6).  N99 will have the 
authority and responsibility of taking promising, nascent unmanned concepts 
and systems (pre-milestone 'B'), assessing their warfighting application, 
guiding them through the initial acquisition process, and passing them to the 
appropriate resource sponsors for continued management.  RADM Robert Girrier 
assumes the duty as Director, N99, upon its establishment on 2 November 2015.

4.  In terms of resources, this realignment will be zero-sum to Navy.

5.  The N99 stand up is commensurate with the establishment of the Deputy 
Under Secretary of the Navy for Unmanned Systems and to inform our fiscal 
year 2018 (FY18) program objective memorandum (POM) decisions.

6.  Released by ADM J. M. Richardson, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
