UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 092031Z DEC 19 MID510000792736U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 283/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DEC/

SUBJ/2020 CNO NAVAL HISTORY ESSAY CONTEST// POC/Dr. Peter D. Haynes, Captain, 
U.S. Navy (Ret.)//LOC:  WASHINGTON, DC
/EMAIL:  peter.d.haynes1(AT)navy.mil//

RMKS/1.  The Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) announces the 2020 CNO Naval 
History Essay Contest and calls for the submission of papers by 31 May 2020.  
The Director of the Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC) will serve as 
the Navy's lead for the contest with the support of the U.S. Naval Institute 
(USNI), which has agreed to assist with receiving and judging essays.  The 
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV), U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), 
Naval War College (NWC), and Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) will also 
provide judges.

2.  The CNO invites entrants to submit an essay that applies lessons from 
throughout naval history to establishing and maintaining maritime superiority 
in an era of great power competition.  Entrants should consider that today's 
era is marked by:
    a.  Determined efforts by China and Russia to coordinate their respective 
instruments of power (e.g., economic, political, and military) to compete for 
commercial, geostrategic, political, and military advantage and access.
    b.  Chinese and Russian expansion across the spectrum of military 
operations (competition, crisis, contingency) and domains (sea, air, land, 
space, cyberspace, and electromagnetic spectrum).
    c.  The rise of China as an economic and maritime power and the 
importance of the maritime domain and the need for the U.S. to integrate 
Navy-Marine Corps operations and multi-domain operational concepts and 
capabilities.
    d.  The increased importance of navies, sea control, and allies and 
partners in a globalized world where 90 percent of world trade (by volume) 
and information travels via the seas or undersea cables.
    e.  The proliferation of advanced weaponry and the erosion of key U.S.
technological advantages that makes it difficult for the U.S. to project 
power to manage crises, deter aggression, and reassure allies and partners.
    f.  Fundamental geopolitical, economic, and technological changes that 
promise to change the character and conduct of naval warfare and challenge 
the Navy's ability to adapt conceptually and materially.

3.  CNO's Intent:  Engage and leverage the immense intellectual creativity of 
the U.S. maritime services (i.e., the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast 
Guard) to provide insights and catalyze discussion on how the Navy should 
compete more effectively, win battles before they become kinetic, and deter 
aggression and, failing that, to ensure access and win outright.

4.  Essays will be accepted from entrants in the following categories:
    a.  Professional Category:  History curators, archivists, professors, 
historians, and persons with history-related doctoral degrees.
    b.  Rising Category:  Active-duty, reserve, retired, and federal civilian 
personnel from the U.S. Navy, U.S. Marine Corps, and U.S. Coast Guard not 
included in the Professional Category.

5.  Essay requirements:
    a.  3,000-word maximum (excluding footnotes, endnotes, and sources).
    b.  Submissions must be the author's original work, neither previously 
published or currently under consideration for publication elsewhere, nor 
previously submitted to the CNO Naval History Essay Contest.
    c.  Entrants may submit multiple essays, but the judging panel will 
select only one winning essay per entrant.
    d.  Submissions must be made via emailto:  cnoessaycontest(AT)usni.org.
Please include the essay's title and category (i.e., Professional or Rising) 
in the email's subject line.
    e.  Submissions deadline:  2359 Eastern Standard Time, 31 May 2020.
    f.  In the email, please provide two attachments.  The first attachment 
is the essay.  On the essay's title page, include the word count (excluding 
footnotes, endnotes, and sources).  Do not include the author,s name anywhere 
in the essay.  In the second attachment, please provide a short biography 
that details the author's eligibility for the contest as well as contact 
information to include email address, phone number, and mailing address.
    g.  For more details about the contest, please visit 
https://www.history.navy.mil/get-involved/essay-contest.html or email Ms. 
Jaci
Day:  jday(AT)usni.org.

6.  Essays will be judged on the following criteria:
    a.  Relevance to the topic:  Applying lessons from naval history to 
establishing and maintaining maritime superiority in an era of great power 
competition;
    b.  Readability;
    c.  Thoroughness of research;
    d.  Quality of insights based on historical events;
    e.  Uniqueness/novelty of ideas presented.

7.  All essays will be judged in the blind.  A judging panel will select 
winning essays (first, second, and third place from the Rising Category and 
first prize from the Professional Category), and the winning authors will 
receive the
following:
    a.  Invitational travel orders to the 2020 CNO Naval History Essay 
Contest Awards Reception (location to be determined) to meet the CNO and 
present their respective papers.
    b.  A cash prize (courtesy of USNI):
       (1) First Place - $5,000 (both categories);
       (2) Second Place - $2,500 (Rising Category only);
       (3) Third Place - $1,500 (Rising Category only).
    c.  Publication of their essay in USNI?s Proceedings and Naval History 
magazine (first-place essays) and on the NHHC website (all winning essays).  
Some non-winning essays may also be selected for publication.
    d.  Copper sheathing from USS CONSTITUTION.
    e.  Recognition on NHHC?s website.
    f.  A one-year USNI membership and a one-year subscription to Naval 
History magazine (courtesy of USNI).

8.  Tasks:
    a.  Director, NHHC:
        (1) Coordinate receipt, acknowledgment, and blind judging of 
submissions;
        (2) Nominate senior staff members to serve on the final judging 
panel;
        (3) Coordinate announcing the contest winners;
        (4) Coordinate the 2020 CNO Naval History Essay Contest Awards 
Reception and invitational travel for the winning authors;
        (5) Coordinate publication of winning and selected essays;
        (6) Capture and forward lessons learned.
    b.  OPNAV:  nominate two senior staff members to serve on the final 
judging panel.
    c.  Superintendent, USNA:  nominate senior staff member to serve on the 
final judging panel.
    d.  President, NWC:  nominate a senior staff member to serve on the final 
judging panel.
    e.  President, NPS:  nominate a senior staff member to serve on the final 
judging panel.

9.  For questions pertaining to the content of this NAVADMIN, please contact 
Dr.
Peter D. Haynes, NHHC:  email:  peter.d.haynes1(AT)navy.mil.  For advice and 
guidance on writing essays contact Ms. Jaci Day,
USNI:  email:  jday(AT)usni.org

10.  Released by Ms. Steffanie B. Easter, Director Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


