RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 2592301-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 162301Z SEP 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N03006//
NAVADMIN 237/13
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP// 

SUBJ/ORDER TO UPDATE NAVY FAMILY ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM PERSONNEL 
CONTACT INFORMATION// 

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/01MAR11// 
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 3006.1, PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONJUNCTION WITH 
CATASTROPHIC EVENTS// 

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN discusses the semi-annual update/verification of personal information in Navy 
Family Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS) by all Navy military and civilian personnel.  This 
message applies to all Navy personnel, uniformed (active and reserve) and civilian and OCONUS 
contractors.

2.  Echelon II commanders and all regional commanders will ensure widest dissemination to all 
subordinate and tenant commands and detachments for action as required.  NFAAS is the system 
utilized by the Navy to account for personnel and their families during widespread natural or manmade 
disasters.  It is imperative to have accurate contact information of personnel and family members to 
facilitate a quick and accurate muster of personnel in affected areas.

3.  It is required for all military personnel to update and verify contact information and all categories of 
dependents.  Non-bargaining unit civilian employees must update their information; however, providing 
dependent information is voluntary.  Failure to provide dependent information may exclude non-
bargaining unit civilian employees from receiving potential benefits, if applicable.  At this time 
bargaining unit civilian employees are encouraged to provide their contact and dependent information 
on a voluntary basis, until union notification and subsequent impact and implementation bargaining 
takes place (when applicable).  October cycle updates provided only an 86 percent update from our 
force.  Our goal is 100 percent update by the closing date of each cycle.

4.  All commanding officers/officers in charge will ensure timely and accurate updates of Navy member 
and family member contact information as stated above.  Commanding officers/officers in charge will 
also contact the human resources office to request applicable union notifications.  This requirement also 
includes OCONUS contractors (must enter associated UIC).  Per ref (a), updates of personal information 
will be verified as current by 1 April and 1 October each year.  A report of those commands not in 
compliance with this NAVADMIN will be provided to the office of the Chief of Naval Operations for 
review.  We are currently in the new update/verify cycle.  This cycle is now in effect and will end on 30 
September 2013.  All personnel may logon to NFAAS and update/verify contact information as required.

5.  Additionally, each command will institute policies requiring personnel to update their NFAAS data 
during the check-in and check-out process as standard practice.  Military members/dependents must 
also update NFAAS in any instance in which they make a permanent change of address.  Civilian non-
bargaining unit employees must update their contact information and are encouraged to update their 
dependents' information on a voluntary basis whenever there is a change.  Civilian bargaining unit 
employees are encouraged to update their information whenever there is a change.

6.  For military and civilian members to update contact data, utilize the NFAAS site at 
https://navyfamily.navy.mil.  Log in and update member information under the "my info" tab "contact 
information"  section.  Update family member information under the "my info" tab "family member 
info" section.  Edit member and family member information as necessary and verify as current.  All 
family members enrolled in the exceptional family member program must be identified as such.

7.  The NFAAS site can also be accessed from any android, Iphone or blackberry mobile device's web 
browser.  Although the application uses the same URL address as the NFAAS website, when accessed via 
mobile device, the site will be optimized to allow easy viewing and navigation.  The following limited 
capabilities are available via the mobile web application:
    a.  Update sponsor contact information.
    b.  Enter evacuation location information.
    c.  Allow users to muster.
    d.  Allow users to complete a needs assessment.

8.  Commands can validate contact information has been verified by using the personnel tab in NFAAS 
and use the "export to excel" 
option.  Column N contains the date the contact information was last updated.

9.  A tool is available in NFAAS to allow commands to "pull" personnel into their UIC.  This prevents 
information from incorrectly remaining in a previous UIC and not being accounted for in the current 
command within NFAAS.

10.  Points of contact:
    a.  NFAAS help desk/SPAWAR - (866) 946-9183 or via e-mail at nfaas(at)spawar.navy.mil.
    b.  NPC emergency coordination center - (877) 414-5358 or via e-mail at npc.cat.captain(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NFAAS program manager - (202) 433-9360 or via e-mail at allison.black(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0378
NNNN

