UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 211334Z JAN 15 PSN 505960H25
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 018/15

SUBJ/ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY FOR NAVY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6BC/DEC//
REF/A/MSG/DON CIO/031648ZOCT11//
REF/B/DOC/CJCS/9FEB2011//
REF/C/DOC/DOD/17NOV2011//
REF/D/DOC/DOD/24FEB2012//
REF/E/MSG/SECNAV/192027ZAUG10//
REF/F/MSG/SECNAV/192031ZAUG10//
REF/G/MSG/DON CIO/032009ZOCT08//
AMPN/Reference (a) is Department of the Navy (DON) Chief Information Officer 
(CIO) message on Acceptable use of DON Information Technology Resources.  
Reference (b) is Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 6510.01F, 
Information Assurance and Support to Computer Network Defense.  Reference (c) 
is Department of Defense (DoD) 5500.7-R CH7, Joint Ethics Regulation, 
Sections 2-301 and 10-100.  Reference (d) is DoDM 5200.01, DoD Information 
Security Program Manual.  Reference (e) is ALNAV 056/10 that provides 
Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) guidance for official posts on internet-based 
capabilities.  Reference (f) is ALNAV 057/10 that provides SECNAV guidance 
for unofficial posts on internet-based capabilities.  Reference (g) provides 
SECNAV policy on the use of digital signatures and encryption with email.//
POC/MS. BROOKE ZIMMERMAN/CIV/OPNAV N2N6BC4/TEL:  (571) 256-8521
/TEL:  DSN: 260-8521/E-MAIL:  BROOKE.ZIMMERMAN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  In support of references (a) and (b), this message outlines 
acceptable use standards when using Navy information technology (IT) 
resources for official and authorized unofficial purposes.

2.  Scope and Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy IT resource 
users including military, civilian, and contract support personnel.

3.  Background.  When used appropriately, Navy IT resources greatly enhance 
our warfighting and business processing capabilities.  However, when used 
inappropriately and without regard to good cybersecurity practices, these 
same resources increase the Navy’s exposure to malicious intrusions, expose 
our information to threats, and increase costs through spillage and higher 
bandwidth (B/W) requirements.

4.  Discussion
    a.  This is the first in a series of forthcoming Cyber Hygiene
    messages.
    b.  Appropriately controlling access to, and personal use of,
    Navy IT resources is a leadership issue.  Commanders, Commanding
    Officers, Civilian Leaders, and Officers in Charge (hereafter
    referred to as Commanding Officers) must engage with their users
    to ensure IT resources are being utilized in an acceptable manner
    and in accordance with the below policy.  Following this policy and
    instilling a climate of accountability combined with an effective
    command training program will enhance productivity, maintain
    network stability, and support a solid defense-in-depth approach.
    c.  Penalties for violation of the rules republished in, and
    prescribed by, this message include applicable criminal, civil,
    and administrative sanctions for current DoD employees, including
    punishment under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
    (UCMJ).  References (c) and (d) are germane.

5.  Action
    a.  Users are directed to read, understand, and comply with
    reference (a) in its entirety.  Paragrah 6 of this message
    provides additional focus and direction to the Department of the Navy
    (DON) policy.

6. Policy
a.  Commercial Email
(1) Navy personnel are authorized to access commercial web-based email 
using Navy IT resources for personal use within the limitations of 
reference (a), paragrah 5.D and reference (c).
(2) Use of commercial email for official business is only permitted 
when necessary to meet operational requirements in cases where Navy 
provided email is unavailable.  This use must be endorsed by the 
command Information Assurance Manager (IAM) and approved in advance by 
the Designated Accrediting Authority (DAA) or the DAA*s written 
designee.
(3) Users must follow specific guidelines defined in references (e) and 
(f) and to ensure controlled unclassified information (CUI), including 
personal identifiable information (PII), and for official use only 
(FOUO) is safeguarded. Commercial email cannot be authorized to 
transmit CUI (including PII).

b.  To ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and 
security of Navy IT resources and information, users shall not:
(1) Auto-forward any email from a Navy account to a commercial email 
account (e.g., .com, .edu, etc.);
(2) Bypass, stress, or test cybersecurity or computer network defense 
(CND) mechanisms (e.g., firewalls, content filters, proxy servers, 
anti-virus programs, etc.);
(3) Introduce or use unauthorized software, firmware, or hardware on 
any Navy IT resource;
(4) Relocate or change equipment or the network connectivity of 
equipment without authorization from the local information assurance 
(IA) authority;
(5) Use personally owned hardware, software, shareware, or public 
domain software without written authorization from the localIA 
authority;
(6) Upload or download executable files (e.g., .exe, .com, .vbs, or 
.bat) onto Navy IT resources without the written approval of the local 
cybersecurity authority;
(7) Participate in or contribute to any activity resulting in a 
disruption or denial of service;
(8) Write, code, compile, store, transmit, transfer, or introduce 
malicious software, programs, or code;
(9) Use Navy IT resources in a way that would reflect adversely on the 
Navy per reference (c).  Such uses include pornography, chain letter, 
unofficial advertising, soliciting, or selling except on authorized 
bulletin boards established for such use, violation of statute or 
regulation, inappropriately handled classified information and PII, and 
other uses that are incompatible with public service; or 
(10) Place data onto Navy IT resources processing insufficient security 
controls to protect that data at the required classification (e.g., 
secret data on unclassified IT asset).

c.  To ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and 
security of Navy resources and information, users shall:
(1) Safeguard information and information systems from unauthorized or 
inadvertent modification, disclosure, destruction, or misuse;
(2) Protect CUI, to include PII, and classified information to prevent 
unauthorized access, compromise, tampering, or exploitation of the 
information;
(3) Protect authenticators (e.g., passwords and personal identification 
numbers) required for logon authentication at the same classification 
as the highest classification of the information accessed;
(4) Protect authentication tokens (e.g., CAC, alternate logon token, 
personal identity verification, National Security System tokens) at all 
times.  Authentication tokens shall not be left unattended at any time 
unless properly secured;
(5) Virus-check all information, programs, and other files prior to 
uploading onto any Navy IT resource;
(6) Report all security incidents, including PII breaches, immediately 
per applicable procedures;
(7) Access only that data, controlled information, software, hardware, 
and firmware for which they are authorized access by their Commanding 
Officer, have a need-to-know, and have the appropriate security 
clearance.  Assume only those roles and privileges for which the user 
is authorized;
(8) Observe all policies and procedures governing the secure operation 
and authorized use of a Navy information system;
(9) Digitally sign and encrypt email when appropriate per reference 
(g); and
(10) Employ sound operations security measures per DoD, DON, Navy, and 
command directives.

7.  Action.  Command leadership shall familiarize themselves with references 
(a) through (g) and incorporate applicable requirements and guidelines into 
command policy, guidance, training, and accountability actions.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Ted N. Branch, OPNAV N2N6.

BT
#2856
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
