UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 091703Z MAY 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 104/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FY-20 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED 
SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) commissioning program.

2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all paygrades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).

3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-20 STA-21 program is 1 
July 2019.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the deadline 
date.  It is recommended that applications be mailed prior to the deadline as 
early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for submission of 
missing or illegible documents.  Deadline for submission of additional 
documentation to the package of an applicant is 1 August 2019.  No additional 
documents can be added after this date.  The selection board is scheduled to 
convene in September 2019 and the selectees will be announced via MyNavy 
Portal.

4.  The following target options and core are open for application for the 
FY-20 Selection Board:  Surface Warfare Officer (SWO), SWO/Engineering, 
Nuclear (Surface/Sub), Special Warfare, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval 
Flight Officer, Naval Aviator, Civil Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps and 
Information Professional.

5.  The following communities have zero select opportunity for FY-
20:  Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical Corps, 
Supply Corps, SWO/Information Professional and SWO/Oceanography.

6.  The Nuclear (Surface/Sub) Target Option is open to Sailors who have 
completed the initial training pipeline and hold an active nuclear Navy 
Enlisted Classification (NEC) (335X, 336X, 338X or 339X).  Sailors who are 
serving as a staff member or student in the Navy nuclear power training 
pipeline are also eligible.  All applicants must be able to begin their first 
day of class in the first semester of their course work prior to commencing 
their eighth year of service.  See the Nuclear Program Authorization (PA150A) 
dated May 2019 for more specific information and all other requirements to 
apply for the program.  Additionally, applicants holding a nuclear NEC must 
receive conditional release, in line with reference (b), if applying for 
option outside the Nuclear Community, from the Nuclear Enlisted Community 
Manager (OPNAV N133D).

7.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the FY-
19 STA-21 selection process and board.  This information is provided to 
preclude common errors:
    a.  Of the 323 applications received for FY-19, only 305 were board 
eligible.  A total of 50 were selected to participate in the
FY-19 STA-21 program.
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying 
Scholastic Aptitude Test/American College Test (SAT/ACT) test scores, missing 
commanding officer (CO) endorsement/recommendation, recent non-judicial 
punishment, missing physical fitness assessment
(PFA) cycles and validation of non-participation PFA status for those Sailors 
who received overall excellent low or better, missing or illegible submission 
of documents and not meeting program age or PFA requirements.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.  
Officer interview boards shall consist of three officers.  The CO of the 
applicant may not be a board member and should not submit an interview 
appraisal sheet.  The personal interview of the CO should be conducted only 
after the application is complete and the officer interview board has 
submitted their appraisals.  The full picture of the academic and officer 
potential of an applicant can only be determined by reviewing the SAT/ACT 
scores, high school/college transcripts and a completed application package.
    d.  The endorsement of the CO is extremely important, especially the 
ranking of the applicant among his or her peers.  The endorsement should 
contain specifics about the academic potential, commitment, leadership, 
service above self and potential for successful service of the applicant as a 
naval officer.  CO comments should specify the primary option to which the 
applicant is applying and address how the applicant meets qualifications for 
that option.
For junior Sailors with only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address the 
schoolhouse status of the applicant and performance in their endorsement.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board shall be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  It is recommended that officers belonging to the 
designator of choice of the applicant, if available, be asked to participate 
in the interview/nomination review board to assess the applicant for their 
community.  Officer appraisals provide important insight on the applicant.  
The appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
leadership and academic potential of the applicant.  Appraisal forms should 
be typed to ensure legibility for the selection board.
    f.  The personal statement of the applicant should address why the Sailor 
wants to become an officer, how the selection of the Sailor would improve the 
Navy and why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must also 
address any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  
Junior Sailors should provide information on high school experiences as high 
school transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in 
sports, clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should 
address any anomalies in their package (e.g., poor high school grades, 
college grades or service school grades, poor evaluation performance).  The 
explanation should include details of the situation, how the applicant has 
overcome these issues and why the applicant will be successful in the future.
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant.
Applicants should review their application in its entirety before submission.  
They must check for misspelled words and improper grammar, and ensure all 
transcripts (high school and all colleges) are enclosed.
    h.  Within the last year, applicants must have passed both PFA cycles to 
include body composition assessment and the physical readiness test (PRT) 
with performance in the good category or better.  For applicants who received 
a waiver on the most recent PRT, points will be awarded from the most recent 
observed score from the latest full test taken within 1 year of the 
application (i.e., Fall 2018 and Spring 2019).
    i.  Applicants may include additional recommendations, qualifications or 
other accomplishments as a part of their application.

8.  Mail completed applications to:
    Commander
    Naval Service Training Command (N92/STA 21)
    250 Dallas Street Ste A
    Pensacola FL 32508-5268

9.  Program information to include program updates, eligibility criteria, 
application requirements and selection procedures is available on MyNavy 
Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-
planning/commissioning-programs.

10.  Point of contacts:
    a.  For STA-21 program and application procedures contact Naval Service 
Training Command, STA-21 Program Officer at (850) 452-9433/
9563 DSN 459 or via e-mail at pnsc_sta21(at)navy.mil.
    b.  For STA-21 Nuclear option, point of contact is the Nuclear Enlisted 
Community Manager, OPNAV N133D, at (703) 604-5491/DSN 664 or via e-mail at 
bullnuke(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

