UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 041923Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 079/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/FY-17 MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces updates to the Meritorious Advancement 
Program (MAP).

2.  This NAVADMIN supersedes NAVADMIN 089/16 and provides policy and guidance 
for the FY-17 MAP Season.

3.  MAP Intent.  As a part of Sailor 2025 and our continuing efforts to 
modernize personnel systems and processes, this NAVADMIN provides policy and 
guidance for the FY-17 MAP Season.  We continue to refine and improve the 
program to further empower command triads to recognize their most highly 
talented Sailors through immediate advancement.  Changes this season include:
    a.  Increasing the total number of MAP quotas (86 percent increase since 
the program began in FY-15)
    b.  Increasing the number of commands to receive quotas
    c.  Relaxation of the time-in-rate (TIR) requirements
    d.  Allowing commanding officers (CO) to select Sailors in subordinate 
unit identification codes (UIC)
    e.  Increasing equity across sea and shore commands
The added flexibility and increased importance of MAP will account for 
approximately 10 percent of all E4-E6 advancements this year, which is up 
from 5.5 percent in 2015 and 7.4 percent in 2016.

4.  Fleet Feedback.  These modifications are the result of the close 
partnership with Navy leadership and the MAP strategic working group, which 
is comprised of senior enlisted leaders across the Fleet.  The strategic 
working group assessed lessons learned from FY-16 and Sailor feedback to 
ensure even greater opportunity and flexibility is given to the command 
leadership triad.  As a result, we have reduced the minimum E3-E5 billets 
authorized (BA) required for commands to receive a MAP quota.

5.  Community Health.  We must balance community health and provide Sailors 
with advancement opportunity across all three advancement cycles, two Navy 
Wide Advancement Exams (NWAE) and one MAP Season.
    a.  To ensure communities remain healthy, commands who wish to nominate a 
Sailor in a controlled rate must submit their request via their chain of 
command to their budget submitting office/designated echelon II (BSO/Ech II) 
commands for consideration.  BSO/Ech II commands remain the approval 
authority for controlled rate requests. Requests not approved by the BSO/Ech 
II command will be returned to the originating command, which can use the MAP 
quota to advance an alternate Sailor in a non-controlled rate.
    b.  The following rates, by component, are controlled for the FY-17 MAP 
Season (i.e. BSO/Ech II approval required to be MAP advanced into the rates 
listed):
        (1) Active Component:  CTM1, GSM1, LSS1, MMA1, MR1, SH1, YNS1.
        (2) Full Time Support:  AD1, AE1, AME1, AO1, AS1, AT1, AWF1, AZ1, 
BM1, CS1, DC1, EM1, ET1, IT1, PR1, AWF2.
    c.  A request for a controlled rate quota must be submitted from the CO, 
via the chain of command, to their BSO/Ech II command no later than 1 June 
2017.  Adjudication and notification of the controlled rate request will be 
no later than 30 June 2017.  If approved, a copy of the BSO/Ech II 
authorization letter must be submitted as an enclosure with the MAP 
Certification Letter (MCL) as directed in paragraph 8.  Each BSO/Ech II 
command is the approval authority for exceptions to policy (ETP) for their 
subordinate commands.

6.  MAP Quotas.  MAP quotas are allocated to both individual commands and 
BSO/Ech II commands.
    a.  Command MAP quotas are calculated based on the eligible E3-
E5 BA at the command level.  The specific number of quotas, if any, will 
depend on the size of the E3-E5 BA at the command level, to include BA at 
subordinate UICs.  At a minimum, a command with at least 15 E3-E5 BA will 
receive a MAP quota at the paygrade with the most billets (e.g. command with 
5 E3 billets and 10 E4 billets will receive 1 E5 quota).  Parent commands 
with subordinate UICs will be awarded quotas based on the combined BA of the 
parent and subordinate UICs.  All Sailors assigned to subordinate UICs are 
eligible for MAP quotas assigned to the parent command.
    b.  The BA associated with commands that do not generate MAP quotas are 
aggregated and then allocated to the BSO/Ech II for distribution to any 
commands within that BSO/Ech II, including the headquarters command.
    c.  All commands are authorized to request quotas from their BSO/Ech II, 
via their immediate superior in command (ISIC) and Type Commander (TYCOM), 
whether or not command quotas are authorized. The deadline to submit quota 
requests is no later than 1 June 2017. BSO/Ech IIs and TYCOMs may issue 
additional guidance how subordinate commands must request a quota.  Each 
BSO/Ech II command is the approval authority for ETPs for their subordinate 
commands.
    d.  The list of MAP quotas by UIC can be found on the Navy Personnel 
Command (NPC) website at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/career/talentmanagement/Pages/MAP.aspx.

7.  MAP Eligibility.  MAP is open to all Sailors who meet advancement 
eligibility requirements.
    a.  MAP open season will take place from 1 July 2017 to 31 August 2017.  
The effective date of advancement is the date of the COs MCL or 1 July 2017, 
whichever is later.  Commands are encouraged to begin their MAP selection 
process and submit their MCL as early as possible to ensure Sailors are 
advanced and paid expeditiously.
    b.  MAP redistribution season will take place from 1 September 2017 to 30 
September 2017.  The effective date of advancement is the date of the COs MCL 
or 1 September 2017, whichever is later.
    c.  Sailors can only be meritoriously advanced one paygrade. Sailors in a 
frocked status are not eligible for advancement to the next higher paygrade 
until effectively advanced (i.e. entitled to pay and allowances of their 
frocked paygrade).  Sailors must have the following TIR in paygrades E3E5 for 
MAP advancement eligibility:
        (1) E6  1 July 2015
        (2) E5  No TIR requirement
        (3) E4  No TIR requirement
    d.  COs may waive up to an additional 12 months of the required TIR for 
E5 Sailors who have received a promotion recommendation of Early Promote on 
the most recent observed periodic evaluation.
    e.  Sailors must be attached to the MAP authorized command during the FY-
17 MAP Season.  Projected rotation date change requests are recommended if a 
Sailor will transfer prior to the start of the MAP Season.
    f.  Professional Apprenticeship Career Track (PACT) Sailors remain 
eligible for MAP advancement, provided the Sailor has an approved quota for 
rating designation (i.e. approved quota in C-WAY) via the NWAE or Rating 
Entry Designation.  MAP advancement is not authorized for PACT Sailors with 
designation approval for A-School required ratings.
    g.  Director, Military Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV (N13)) is the 
determining authority for MAP eligibility ETPs.  Any MAP eligibility ETP 
request will be submitted to OPNAV (N13) via the chain of command and copy to 
Enlisted Career Administration/Enlisted Boards (PERS-81).

8.  MAP Validation.  Commands will forward their MCL (copy to ISIC and TYCOM) 
to PERS-81 listing their Sailors selected for meritorious advancement.  MCLs 
must include all required information including the subordinate UIC the 
selected Sailor is attached, if applicable.
    a.  PERS-81 will review the record(s) of the selected Sailor(s) and 
validate the MCL.  If there are no discrepancies PERS-81 will inform the 
command that their MAP selects are valid.  Commands are not authorized to 
notify Sailor(s) of MAP selection until receipt of the PERS-81 validation of 
the MCL.
    b.  If discrepancies are discovered, PERS-81 will invalidate the MCL and 
notify the command (copy to ISIC and TYCOM) of the reason(s) for 
invalidation.  Commands may correct discrepancies and resubmit or identify 
new MAP candidates.
    c.  An unencrypted e-mail is the preferred method for submission of the 
MCL (signed and scanned attachment) to PERS-81 at: advancements-
active(at)Navy.mil.  The e-mail subject line must include the MAP UIC.  Do 
not mail in the MCL if it has already been e-mailed.  An e-mail response 
validating the MCL will be received within 5 business days of submission.
    d.  If operational commitments preclude a command from submitting their 
MCL prior to the deadline, the command must forward the MCL with 
justification to their ISIC/chain of command for endorsement and further 
processing through PERS-81.

9.  Quota Redistribution.  The BSO/Ech II command has final authority to 
determine which command(s) will receive unused quotas during redistribution 
season.  MAP redistribution season will take place from 1-30 September 2017.  
If awarded a redistributed quota from the BSO/Ech II Commander, an additional 
MCL must be submitted to PERS-81 as directed in paragraph 8.

10.  Quota Substitution.  Commands are not authorized to substitute paygrades 
for MAP quotas (e.g. utilize an E6 MAP quota to advance an E3 Sailor to E4 or 
vice versa).  MAP quotas are formulated based upon specific BA, thus 
substitution of quotas may cause over-execution of advancements at certain 
paygrades.

11.  Subordinate UICs.  COs are authorized to utilize MAP quotas at their 
subordinate UICs.  MAP Quotas are distributed by command UIC and must be used 
to advance a Sailor permanently assigned, or temporary additional duty for 
greater than 30 days, to that UIC or subordinate UIC.

12.  MAP for Selected Reserve (SELRES).  MAP is open to SELRES during the 
FY-17 MAP Season.  Policy, guidance and quota distribution for SELRES will be 
outlined in a future ALNAVRESFOR. However, Navy Recruiting Districts (NRD) 
are authorized to use one MAP quota per NRD for reserve Sailors filling 
Canvasser Recruiter billets.

13.  MAP Website.  Example forms and FAQs can be downloaded via the NPC 
website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/talentmanagement/Pages/MAP.aspx.  The list of POCs for each 
BSO/Ech II command and list of parent and subordinate UICs can also be found 
on this website.

14.  Points of contact.  Navy Personnel Command (PERS-812), at (901) 874-
4457/DNS 882 or via e-mail at advancements-active(at)navy.mil

15.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever comes first.

16.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
