UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 061652Z SEP 16

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 197/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//

SUBJ/FY-18 NAVY ACTIVE-DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS 
FOR MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/2NOV07//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/03JUN09//

REF/C/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//

REF/D/DOC/BUMED/21JUL16//

REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/192102ZNOV14//

REF/F/DOC/BUPERS/01MAY15//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16F, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR THE ENLISTED  
PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.
REF B IS OPNAVINST  1220.1D, CHANGING OR REMOVING PRIMARY NAVY ENLISTED 
CLASSIFICATION CODES FOR  NUCLEAR PROPULSION PLANT OPERATORS.  REF C IS ALNAV 
015/13, PERSONNEL SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.  REF D IS 
MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT (MANMED), NAVMED P-117.  REF E IS NAVADMIN 
266/14 SENIOR ENLISTED ACADEMY.  REF F IS BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility, communication to 
the boards, and board membership or recorder application procedures regarding 
the FY-18 Navy Active-Duty and Reserve Enlisted Advancement Selection Boards 
for Master Chief and Senior Chief Petty Officer.  The reserve board will 
consider personnel serving on active-duty as Full Time Support (FTS) and 
Selected Reserve (SELRES), to include those serving on voluntary and 
involuntary recall and mobilization orders.  Mobilized Individual Ready 
Reserve (IRR) personnel are considered under the SELRES requirements for 
advancement.

2.  Timeline
    a.  21 October 2016.  Navy Personnel Command (NPC) (PERS-802) compiles 
and submits initial time-in-rate (TIR) eligibility list of candidates to 
Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center (NETPDC) (N321).
    b.  11 November 2016.  Examination Status Verification Reports
(ESVR) will be available at:  https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.
    c.  6 February 2017.  Reserve Component (RC) E8/E9 board candidates 
changing ratings must be in their new rating to be considered as a candidate 
in the new rating.
    d.  13 February 2017.  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline for the RC E8/9 
selection board.
    e.  3 March 2017.  Active Component (AC) E9 board candidates changing 
ratings must be in their new rating to be considered as a candidate in the 
new rating.
    f.  6 March 2017.  RC E8/E9 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.
    g.  13 March 2017.  LTB deadline for the AC E9 selection board.
    h.  17 March 2017.  RC E8/E9 selection board scheduled to
    adjourn.
    i.  24 March 2017.  AC E8 board candidates changing ratings must be in 
their new rating to be considered as a candidate in the new rating.
    j.  3 April 2017.  AC E9 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.
    k.  3 April 2017.  LTB deadline for the AC E8 selection board.
    l.  14 April 2017.  AC E9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    m.  24 April 2017.  AC E8 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval prior to this 
date.
    n.  12 May 2017.  AC E8 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

3.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a) prior to the scheduled board convening 
date.  Requirements achieved after the scheduled board convening date will be 
considered late and not make a candidate eligible for the regularly scheduled 
board or entitle a candidate to an enlisted special selection board.  The 
authoritative source to determine selection board eligibility is the profile 
sheet.  The AC/FTS/SELRES cycle is 233.  Because eligibility status can 
change without direct notification, candidates should verify their profile 
sheet on a continuous basis and commands must verify their ESVR weekly 
through the projected board adjournment date.  The profile sheet and ESVR are 
updated as changes are processed by PERS-802.
    a.  The candidate shares equal responsibility with their parent command 
to ensure:
        (1) the candidates name appears on the selection board eligibility 
list.
        (2) the candidate is listed in the correct competitive group.
        (3) the candidates Official Military Personnel File (OMPF)field codes 
30-38 and Performance Summary Record (PSR) are up-to-date.
    b.  If an eligible candidate is not listed, mail or send an e-mail 
containing a completed Advancement in Rate or Change in Rating worksheet 
(NETPDTC 1430/3 Rev 06-16) along with a letter of transmittal to NETPDC
(N321) and info PERS-802.
    c.  If listed candidates are ineligible or later become ineligible, 
submit a message to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting invalidation of 
eligibility status and provide explanation for invalidation.  Per reference
(a) paragraph 721b, withdrawal of advancement recommendation must be 
completed and documented prior to message transmission.
    d.  If candidates are validated in the wrong competitive category, submit 
a message notification to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 detailing the 
discrepancy.
    e.  Sailors not selected to continue from a Senior Enlisted Continuation 
Board are ineligible for advancement.
    f.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent chief evaluation shall be invalidated.  Evaluations that restore 
a recommendation for advancement must be made available to the selection 
board prior to the board convening date.
    g.  Per reference (a), terminal eligibility date used to compute the TIR 
is 1 October 2017.  The minimum TIR date for E8 candidates must be on or 
before 1 September 2014.  The minimum TIR date for E9 candidates must be on 
or before 1 July 2014.
    h.   High Year Tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver for the
current paygrade must be 1 July 2017 or later.  Candidates who will be at HYT 
on 1 July 2017 for the next higher paygrade are ineligible for advancement, 
regardless of any approved HYT waiver.
    i.  Members who have submitted voluntary Fleet Reserve 
(FLTRES)/retirement requests to NPC are not eligible.  Voluntary FLTRES are 
those not mandated by HYT; requests due to HYT are eligible for advancement 
and selection board consideration provided their HYT date for the present 
paygrade is 1 July 2017 or later per reference (a).  An approved or pending 
voluntary FLTRES/retirement request must be successfully disapproved, 
canceled, or modified to an involuntary date prior to the board convening to 
render a candidate selection board eligible.
    j.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
To Admiral (STA-21), Medical Enlisted Commissioning Program, Medical Service 
Corps in-service procurement, or Judge Advocate General Corps in-service 
procurement programs remain eligible for advancement consideration.
Selection to any other officer commissioning program renders candidates 
ineligible.  Commands are required to request those candidates be invalidated 
by PERS-802.  Per reference (b), nuclear candidates who are assigned Navy 
Enlisted Classification (NEC) 3359/3389 upon transfer from a nuclear 
propulsion plant operator to a non-nuclear billet at sea or ashore, or to 
duty under instruction including special college education programs are 
ineligible for advancement.  This includes nuclear candidates transferred to 
a STA-21 duty station.
    k.  Security clearance requirements.  Candidates in a rating requiring a 
security clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication issued by 
the Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility.  If the candidates 
commanding officer (CO) grants an interim clearance, documentation must be 
received by PERS-802 prior to board convening.  Refer to reference
(c) for additional guidance.  Sailors who have a clearance must maintain that 
clearance eligibility.  Ratings requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, 
AG, AO, AT, AWF, AWO, AWR, AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, 
FC, FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, IT, ITS, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG, 
STS, and YN, as well as all nuclear and submarine ratings.  This guidance 
supersedes reference (a).
    l.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  SPI 
for BRCL 32 Sailors must be verified via the Billet Based Distribution 
system.  BRCL 32 with a blank SPI code is invalid.  Commands must correct the 
error via the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System or the Sailor may 
seek relief by petitioning the Board for Correction of Naval Records.
Sailors whose SPI code is invalid as of the board convening date will be 
invalidated.
    m.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements.
Candidates must meet special requirements (citizenship, medical, etc.) for 
certain ratings as outlined in paragraph 204 of reference (a).  Commands must 
verify and submit a message to NETPDC N321 and NPC PERS-802 requesting 
invalidation of those selection board eligible Sailors who no longer meet the 
qualifications listed in reference (a) or below by the scheduled board 
convening date.
        (1) Air Traffic Controller personnel must possess a valid Federal 
Aviation Administration 7220-1 ATCS Certificate and meet requirements 
established in reference (d).
        (2) Cryptologic Technician Interpretive personnel must achieve a 
minimum of L2/R2 on the Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) in their 
primary language, as assigned by their CO, at least once in their current 
paygrade.  Acceptable documentation of L2/R2 includes an evaluation with 
language scores or a letter from the candidates's command forwarded to the 
board via the candidate's LTB.
        (3) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel.  To be eligible for 
advancement to E8 and E9, Sailors must hold the Master EOD technician NEC 
(5337).
        (4) Navy Diver (ND) personnel.  To be eligible for advancement to E8, 
Sailors must hold the First Class Diver NEC (5342) for group 2 or the Master 
Diver NEC (5341) for group 1.  To be eligible for advancement to E9, Sailors 
must hold the Master Diver NEC (5341).
        (5) Nuclear trained personnel.
            (a) To be eligible for advancement to E8, submarine Sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, or 3366).
Personnel must also hold the nuclear qualified secondary NEC 3302 
(Engineering Department Master Chief (EDMC)).  A NAVPERS 1221/6 requesting a 
secondary NEC of 3302 and copy of qualification card must be submitted to 
OPNAV N133 at bullnuke(at)navy.mil via the Force EDMC by 14 April 2017.  
Additional contact information is available via 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/community/nuclear/Pages/NuclearEnlistedPrograms.aspx
            (b) To be eligible for advancement to E8, surface Sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3393, 3394, 3395, or 3396).
            (c) To be eligible for advancement to E9, submarine Sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3363, 3364, 3365, or 3366).
Candidates must also hold the secondary NEC 3302 and have served or be 
currently serving as an EDMC of a submarine.  Acceptable documentation of 
EDMC service for review by the advancement board includes an evaluation with 
"EDMC" in Block 29 or 41, a letter from the CO via the member providing dates 
of EDMC service, or NSIPS documentation via the candidate.  Candidates 
without EDMC service documented in their service record must submit 
documentation with their LTB providing dates of EDMC service.
            (d) To be eligible for advancement to E9, surface Sailors in 
nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC (3393, 3394, 3395, or
3396) and must have served, or be currently serving as, a Division Leading 
Chief Petty Officer (DLCPO) of a nuclear division at sea (reactor mechanical, 
reactor electrical, reactor controls, reactor propulsion, or reactor 
laboratories), reactor training division officer (RT DIVO) at sea, or leading 
crew chief (LCC) of a prototype.  E8s who are billeted as Reactor Department 
Master Chief (RDMC) in lieu of DLCPO are also eligible for advancement to E9.
Acceptable documentation of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service for review 
by the advancement board includes an evaluation with DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or 
RDMC in Block 29 or 41, a letter from the CO via the member to the board 
providing dates of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service, or NSIPS 
documentation via the member.  Sailors without DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC 
service documented in their service record must submit documentation with 
their LTB providing dates of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC, or RDMC service.
      (6)  Non-Nuclear Submarine Ratings.  To be eligible for advancement, 
submarine Sailors must be designated as either SS, SU, or SQ IAW MILPERSMAN 
1220-040 as of the board convening date.  Candidates designated as SG or SP 
are not eligible for advancement.
    n.  E9 eligibility requirement.  Per reference (e), beginning in FY-17, 
all newly selected Senior Chiefs are required to complete either the U.S. 
Navy Senior Enlisted Academy, U.S. Air Force Senior Enlisted Academy, U.S. 
Marine Corps Senior Enlisted Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Senior Enlisted 
Academy, or Joint Special Warfare Academy in order to be eligible for 
advancement to Master Chief.  This means the first boards where Senior 
Enlisted Academy completion will be required for selection board eligibility 
is the FY-20 Master Chief Selection Boards.  Senior Chiefs should plan 
accordingly.

4.  Competitive Groups.  The below listed ratings are separated into 
competitive groups as applicable to the candidates component:
    a.  CS, LS, YN (Active Duty E8/9)
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - Surface
    b.  CTI (Active Duty E8/9)
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    c.  EMN, ETN, MMN (Active Duty E8/9)
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - Surface
    d.  FC (Active Duty E8/9)
        Group 1 - All Others
        Group 2 - AEGIS
    e.  MU (Active Duty E8/9)
        Group 1 - Premier Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band
    f.  NC (Active Duty and FTS E8/9)
        Group 1 - Career Recruiter Force
        Group 2  Fleet
    g.  ND (Active Duty E8)
        Group 1 - Master Diver (5341)
        Group 2 - First Class Diver (5342)

5.  Record review and communication with the E8/9 selection board.
    a.    Candidates should check their evaluation continuity via
BUPERS Online (BOL).  Any evaluation gaps should be resolved by either 
submitting the missing evaluations in the candidates LTB or a statement in 
lieu of missing report per chapter 17 of reference (f).
    b.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the candidates signed LTB.
        (1) The LTB may address any information that the candidate considers 
important.  Candidates should not include items in their LTB that are already 
included in their OMPF or PSR unless the OMPF version is unreadable or the 
PSR is incorrect.  Submission of a LTB to only state that the candidates OMPF 
and PSR have been verified and is correct is not desired.
        (2) The LTB must either be digitally signed using the candidates 
military identity certificate or have a hand-written signature.  Unsigned 
LTBs will not be presented to board members.
        (3) Third party correspondence is any communication to the board 
which is not accompanied by the candidates signed LTB and will not be 
permitted.  Commands are not authorized to submit a message to NPC requesting 
information be presented to the board.  This supersedes reference(a).
    c.  Information received that is not under a signed LTB or not received 
by NPC Customer Service Center (CSC) by the deadline listed in paragraph 2 
will not be presented to the board.  The time and date LTBs are received 
inthe NPC CSC inbox (central time zone) is the time and date used for 
deadline verification.  To verify receipt of your LTB, go to 
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the NPC 
CSC.  Although late or unsigned LTBs may be accepted by the NPC CSC, they 
will not be presented to the board and no feedback will be provided to the 
candidate.
    d.  All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the candidates full name and 
full social security number.  LTBs Candidates must verify that the correct 
board number is on their signed cover letter.  The board numbers are 205 for 
SELRES E8/9, 206 for FTS E8/9, 210 for AC E9, and 235 for AC E8.
    e.  The preferred method to submit an LTB is by encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect 
personally identifiable information.  Trouble with file encryption or 
certificate issues does not justify a late LTB.
    f.  If unable to e-mail, candidates may use regular mail to the addresses 
below.  Mailed LTBs should be on plain white paper and paper clipped (no 
staples, binders, folders or tabs).
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized IRR E8/9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 Reserve E8/9 Selection Board #205
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (2) FTS E8/9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 Reserve E8/9 Selection Board #206
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (3) Active E9 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 Active E9 Selection Board #210
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
        (4) Active E8 Board:
            Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center
            President
            FY-18 Active E8 Selection Board #235
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055
     g.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
     h.  Candidates are authorized to submit more than one LTB, vice waiting 
until the deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.  Although multiple LTBs 
are authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent information.
     i.  The same LTB deadline applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.  If a candidate is 
working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date, they may submit a LTB, but it 
still must be received prior to the deadline.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BOL to authorized command representatives prior to the release of the 
official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will be published by 
NETPDC within 30 days of both reserve and active selection board results 
being released via NAVADMIN.  Educational Services Officers, who are 
registered users may access results through the Navy Enlisted Advancement 
System (NEAS) website http://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil.  Individual candidates 
may view/download their profile sheet via a .mil domain computer at 
https://prod.neas.netc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Special Selection Boards (SSB).
    a.  SSBs may be approved for candidates who have demonstrated they were 
precluded from consideration at the selection board, or were considered at 
the selection board in the incorrect competitive category; and the 
administrative error was beyond the candidates control and not the direct or 
indirect result of their error, delay, or omission.  SSB requests are to be 
submitted per reference (a) para 102d to PERS-803 vice PERS-811/812.
    b.  All requests for SSBs must be received by PERS-803 no later than two 
years after the date the contested board results were made public.  Requests 
received more than two years after the date the contested board results were 
made public will be treated as untimely and will normally be denied by Deputy 
Chief of Naval Personnel.  If a request is delayed more than the two year 
requirement and justification can be provided for the delay (Board for 
Correction of Naval Records (BCNR) or Inspector General (IG) action), the 
request will be considered.  However, it may ultimately be denied if the 
reason for the delay is due to late submission of the initial BCNR or IG 
request.

8.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

9.  Board members and recorders.
    a.  AC commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
AC selection board.
    b.  FTS commanders and senior lieutenant commanders are encouraged to 
contact their detailer if they are interested in serving as a member on the 
RC selection board.  SELRES commanders and lieutenant commanders are 
encouraged to contact commander, Navy Reserve Forces Command via their 
community leaders if they are interested in serving on the RC selection 
board.
    c.  AC and RC master chiefs are encouraged to apply to serve on the 
selection boards.  There are no restrictions preventing AC members from 
serving on RC selection boards or RC members from serving on AC selection 
boards.
    d.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders if not eligible.  Petty officers (E6 and 
below) may not serve on the boards in any capacity, no exceptions.
    e.  Officers shall complete the Officer Selection Board Member/ Recorder 
Nomination form (NAVPERS 1400/5) found at http://www.public.navy.mil /bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx
    f.  Enlisted applicants must wait until the Annual Notice of Convening 
message for enlisted advancement selection boards has been released (usually 
in early September) before submitting their application.  Follow the 
instructions in that message for submission. Selection to serve on a board is 
not based on the order applications are received.  Early applications will 
not be accepted.
    g.  Enlisted applicants shall complete the Enlisted Selection Board 
Member/Recorder Application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) found at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx and route it through their 
FORCM.  Personnel stationed at commands that do not fall under a FORCM may 
have their SEL or CMC forward the NAVPERS 1400/2 directly to PERS-805 (Mr. 
Patrick Marshall):
donald.p.marshall@navy.mil.  Do not use normal administrative routing.  Only 
route your application to your SEL/CMC/CO/FORCM and PERS-805.

10.  Points of Contact
    a.  NPC Customer Service Center: 866-U-ASK-NPC/866-827-5672 or via e-mail 
at UASKNPC(at)NAVY.MIL.  Do not submit LTBs to this e-mail.
    b.  Selection board eligibility (PERS-802):
        - Mr. David Lanham (Branch Head):  david.b.lanham(at)navy.
          mil
        - Ms. Elizabeth Vaughn (AC):  elizabeth.vaughn(at)navy.mil
        - Ms. Dorothy Harris (FTS/SELRES):  dorothy.harris(at)navy.
          mil
    c.  NETPDC (N321): 850-473-6148/DSN 753 or via e-mail 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

11.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
