UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 271318Z JUN 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 141/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2020 JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERALS CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT 
PROGRAM SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/25APR19//
AMPN/REF A IS PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 111A, JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERALS - IN-
SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM (JAG-IPP).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the Academic Year
(AY) 2020 Judge Advocate Generals Corps (JAGC) In-Service Procurement Program 
(IPP) selection board no earlier than February 2020.  The JAGC IPP provides 
outstanding career-motivated Sailors of all ratings who meet the eligibility 
criteria the opportunity to earn a commission in the JAGC.  The AY-20 JAGC 
IPP selection board will accept applications for the funded legal education 
option and the direct commission option (DCO).  Applicants for the funded 
legal education option must begin law school no later than 30 September 2020.

2.  This program is open to Active Duty and Full-Time Support Sailors in any 
rating or military occupational specialty in the pay grades of E-5 through E-
7 at the time of the application.
Applicants must have served on Active Duty for a period of no less than 2 
years and no more than 10 years at the time applications are due.  Sailors in 
the Individual Ready Reserve or Reservists serving on Active Duty for special 
work, training or 1-to-3 year recalls are not eligible for this program.

3.  Reference (a) provides information on authorized program benefits, 
eligibility, obligated service and program requirements.
This NAVADMIN takes precedence over reference (a).  Applicants should note 
paragraph 6d changes the requirement for funded legal education options to 
submit a law school acceptance letter with the application.

4.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment.

5.  Amplifying education information for the AY-20 JAGC IPP selection board
    a.  Law School Admission Test exam scores are required for all 
applicants.
    b.  All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited 
institution.  Applicants must submit either their official or unofficial 
transcripts for all degrees earned and a complete list of all schools 
attended.
    c.  All applicants must obtain a conditional release from their Enlisted 
Community Manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must 
submit an Electronic Personnel Action Request, NAVPERS 1306/7, to their ECM 
or detailer as appropriate.  The AY-20 JAGC IPP selection board will only 
consider enlisted candidates who have a conditional release included in their 
program application.
    d.  Applicants applying to the funded legal education option must provide 
a prioritized list of U.S. law schools accredited by the American Bar 
Association (ABA) to which the applicant has applied.  Applicants are 
encouraged to apply to more than one school.  Applicants must apply to at 
least one law school in which in-state tuition and fees can be obtained and 
one law school near the current duty station of the applicant.  Navy 
applicants must also apply to one school located in a Fleet concentration 
area (i.e., Norfolk, VA, Jacksonville/Mayport, FL, San Diego, CA, Pearl 
Harbor, HI or Washington, DC).  Applicants must provide a copy of any 
acceptance letters received prior to the convening of the selection board.
     e.  Applicants applying for the DCO option must have obtained a law 
degree (juris doctor) from a law school considered by the ABA to be 
accredited under provisions established by the ABA at the time of their 
graduation from the law school.
     f.  Applicants for the DCO must submit a letter or certificate of good 
standing from the licensing authority admitting the applicant to the practice 
of law before a federal court or the highest court of a state, a U.S. 
territory, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico or the District of Columbia.

6.  Applicants must submit their application electronically via AMRDEC SAFE 
(https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/safe/guide.aspx) to navyaccessions(at)navy.mil.  
If you require an exception to the e- submission policy due to operational 
restrictions, please contact the point of contact for this message prior to 3 
December 2019.
Additional or amplifying information may be submitted by the applicant prior 
to 14 January 2020.  Incomplete applications will not be reviewed by the 
board.

7.  In line with reference (a), prior to submitting a completed application, 
applicants are required to complete a structured interview with the JAGC.  
Structured interviews will be conducted in line with the instructions located 
on MyNavy Portal at
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-qualifications/e-
graduate-education-and-fellowship-programs.  This requirement is separate 
from, and in addition to the command interview.

8.  Point of contact is LCDR Natasha Bode, Office of the Judge Advocate 
General Special Assistant for Accessions, who can be reached at (202) 685-
5273/DSN 325 or via e-mail at navyaccessions(at)navy.mil.

9.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2020.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

