UNCLASSIFIED//
REROUTE DETECTED  
ROUTINE
R 022044Z SEP 14 PSN 374591H29
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN

NAVADMIN 203/14

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/OVERSEAS/REMOTE DUTY SCREENING POLICY CHANGE//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP//
REF/A/DOC/BUMED/23JUN06//
REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/25SEP09//
REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/10NOV09//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/3DEC09//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/13APR10//
NARR/REF A IS BUMEDINST 1300.2A, SUITABILITY SCREENING, MEDICAL ASSIGNMENT 
SCREENING AND EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM (EFMP) IDENTIFICATION AND 
ENROLLMENT.  REF B IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1300-300, OVERSEAS/REMOTE SERVICE 
GENERAL INFORMATION.  REF C IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1300-302, SUITABILITY AND 
SELECTION FOR OVERSEAS SERVICE.  REF D IS MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1300-304, 
SUITABILITY FOR OVERSEAS ASSIGNMENT SCREENING AND REPORTING.  REF E IS 
MILPERSMAN ARTICLE 1300-308, TOUR LENGTHS AND TYPES.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces changes to the overseas screening process.  
The current process of starting overseas screening after receipt of permanent 
change of station (PCS) orders, delays Sailors and families from completing 
overseas screening in a timely manner.
These delays have negatively impacted operational manning.  When a service 
member and/or dependent(s) are found unsuitable for overseas assignment 
within a 90-day window of the expected date of arrival (EDA), the billet 
becomes gapped until a suitable replacement can be found.

2.  Effective immediately, the new process will require the service member to 
complete the overseas screening process with service member*s command and 
medical treatment facility (MTF) prior to the release of the service member*s 
PCS orders.  In addition to making order release contingent on the completion 
of overseas screening, this new process requires that the 
screening/transferring command track and report completion/suitability of a 
member within a specified time frame, outlined below.

3.  Once an enlisted service member is accepted by the Career Management 
System/Interactive Detailing (CMS-ID) for an overseas/remote CONUS 
assignment, the command, the command*s immediate superior-in-command and type 
commander will be notified by Commander, Navy Personnel Command (NPC) (PERS-
4) via a letter of intent (LOI) to commence the overseas screening.  The LOI 
will require the screening to be completed within the timeframe outlined in 
paragraphs 3c and 3d.
    a.  For officers and enlisted not detailed by CMS-ID, the notification 
process will start when the orders have been proposed.
These service members will still be required to complete the screening within 
the timeframe outlined in paragraphs 3c and 3d.
    b.  Official orders will not be released by NPC until final command 
notification has been received showing the member and dependent(s) (if 
applicable) are suitable for the overseas/remote CONUS assignment.
    c.  Sailors without officially documented dependent(s) will be given 30-
days from the day the transferring command receives the LOI to complete the 
screening process.  If the screening process is not completed and suitability 
determination is not reported by the transferring command within the time 
allotted, the proposed orders will be canceled, making the service member 
subject to needs of the Navy assignment without further negotiation.  If a 
delay in submitting the required forms and notification is outside of the 
member*s control, request for waivers can be submitted to NPC (PERS-4).
    d.  Sailors with dependent(s) will be given 30-days from the day the 
transferring command receives the LOI to complete the screening process for 
themselves.  These service members will be given 60-days from the day the 
transferring command receives the LOI to complete the screening process for 
their dependent(s).  If the service member*s or dependent(s) screening 
process is not completed and suitability determination is not reported by the 
transferring command within the time allotted, the proposed orders will be 
canceled, making the service member subject to a needs of the Navy assignment 
without further negotiation.  If a delay in submitting the required forms and 
notification is outside of the member*s control, request for waivers can be 
submitted to NPC (PERS-4).

4.  Once notified by NPC (PERS-4) via LOI, the service member, with the 
assistance of the transferring command, will contact the servicing MTF 
immediately to obtain an appointment for overseas screening for themselves 
and their dependent(s), as applicable. Service member and command interviewer 
must complete PART I of the Report of Suitability for Overseas Assignments 
(NAVPERS 1300/16) prior to reporting to any medical/dental/educational 
screening appointments.  If a waiver is required after completion of PART I 
of NAVPERS 1300/16, the waiver must be approved prior to beginning the 
medical/dental/educational screening.  Medical screening will be in 
accordance with (IAW) reference (a).
    a.  The MTFs are committed to prioritizing appointments for overseas 
screening to reduce delays and meet the expected timelines. Commands must 
ensure that these appointments are met.  Transferring commands must take an 
active role with the service member to address issues such as proximity to 
the MTF, the need to obtain any civilian health records, or dependents who 
are physically separated from the service member.  The screening MTF 
suitability screening coordinator (SSC) will keep the transferring command 
informed via secure messaging (such as encrypted e-mail) of any potential 
delays to the timeframes outlined in paragraphs 3c and 3d.
    b.  The medical screening forms must be completed and reviewed to ensure 
the Sailor and their dependents* medical/dental/educational needs can be met.  
The screening SSC will forward a screening inquiry via secure messaging to 
the gaining SSC or medical officer of the operational platform if there are 
any medical/dental/educational needs to ensure the gaining location has the 
capabilities to meet the individual*s needs.  Screening inquiries will occur 
when any shaded block is marked on Part 1 or 2 of the Medical & Dental 
Overseas Screening Review for Active-Duty or Dependent (NAVMED 1300/1) or 
there are any concerns about the current capabilities at the gaining 
location.  The gaining SSCs will provide a written recommendation of 
approval/disapproval to the screening SSC within seven business/duty days of 
receipt of suitability inquiries.
    c.  A Special Education/Early Intervention Summary (DD Form 2792-1), must 
be completed for each dependent child and turned into the screening MTF SSC.  
In addition, the individualized family service plan (IFSP) and/or 
individualized education program (IEP) for children receiving early 
intervention or special education must be submitted to the screening SSC.  
The screening SSC will forward the completed DD Form 2792-1 and accompanying 
IFSP/IEP to the gaining SSC as part of the screening inquiry if the child is 
receiving early intervention or special education services.  The screening 
SSC will forward the DD Form 2792-1 and IEP to the regional Department of 
Defense education activity special education coordinator via secure 
messaging, who will provide a response to include the availability of special 
education services.
    d.  Doctors, dentists, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants 
designated to perform the screening and designated independent duty corpsmen 
(service members only) will conduct the medical screening immediately and 
provide the results to the SSC.
The SSC submits the package to the MTF commanding officer (CO), officer in 
charge (OIC), or director for administration for suitability recommendation 
of service member and family members.
Screening of service member shall not be delayed in order to screen the 
service member with the dependent(s).
    e.  The MTF CO, OIC, or appointed representative reviews the screening 
package (to include responses from any suitability inquiries) and makes a 
suitability recommendation on the NAVPERS 1300/16 PART II.
    f.  The SSC returns the signed NAVPERS 1300/16 to the service member to 
submit to the transferring command.

5.  Once the suitability determinations (for member and/or dependents) are 
made by the co, command representatives must log into BUPERS Online (BOL) and 
input the status (ships may still utilize naval message when connectivity 
issues exist).
    a.  Once a suitable determination is submitted via BOL, the service 
member*s order routing process will continue and be released based on current 
release authorizations.
    b.  Waiver for extensions of the 30-60 day requirement to complete the 
process will require extensive justification, must be submitted prior to the 
30-60 day requirement and will be reviewed for approval by NPC (PERS-4).

6.  The intent of this process improvement is to accelerate the overseas 
screening process to ensure that overseas/remote CONUS billets are filled in 
a timely manner and reduce operational gaps.
However, the accuracy of the screening is of the utmost importance and must 
be monitored.  When a condition is identified on the NAVPERS 1300/16 or 
NAVMED 1300/1, that requires contact with the gaining command, area 
commander, staff judge advocate or MTF, this process must be expedited while 
protecting all Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and/or 
Personally Identifiable Information IAW applicable guidelines.

7.  Points of contact:  Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center, at 1-
866-u-ask-NPC (1-866-827-5672) or via e-mail at UASKNPC(at)navy.mil.

8.  Additional information on changes to reference (b) through (e), 
Frequently Asked Questions and a LOI may also be found at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/distribution/pages/overseasscreening.aspx.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until reference (b) through (e) has 
been revised.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#3905
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

