UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 262207Z FEB 15 PSN 757738H37
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 051/15

SUBJ/2015 AMERICAN LEGION SPIRIT OF SERVICE AWARD//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/FEB//
POC/TODD MARTIN/MR./NAVCO/LOC: MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:(901) 874-5805/
EMAIL:TODD.MARTIN(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  For the 15th consecutive year, the American Legion will present its 
Spirit of Service Award, which recognizes outstanding volunteer community 
service, to an enlisted member from each branch of the Armed Forces.  The 
award will be presented by the National Commander, Michael Helm, at the 
American Legion's national convention in Baltimore, Maryland, 28 August - 3 
September 2015.

2.  Eligibility.  Nominees must be E-5 or below, may be active or reserve, 
and must be outstanding military professionals.  The main criterion of the 
award is the level of off-duty, volunteer community service that the Sailor 
performed within calendar year (CY) 2014. Previous winners of this award are 
not eligible.  If chosen as the recipient, the awardee is expected to attend 
the convention.

3.  Travel and lodging.  Within CONUS, the American Legion will provide 
travel and lodging expenses for the individual winner only.

4.  Nominations.  Nomination packages must contain four elements:  the
Commanding Officer's (CO) nomination; a description of the volunteer service 
performed during CY 2014; a biography of the Sailor; and a high resolution 
photograph of the Sailor.
    a.  CO nomination.  CO's may nominate one Sailor from their command.
Nominations must be on command letterhead and indicate the CO's confidence in 
the Sailor's professionalism and as a representative of the Navy; validity of 
the volunteer efforts during CY 2014; and a commitment to facilitate their 
nominee's attendance at the national convention, if selected.  Endorsements 
are not required.
    b.  Volunteer efforts.  Description of volunteer efforts during CY
2014 must include quantitative data such as hours, days, or months spent on 
off duty volunteer community service.  This description may be provided in 
either narrative or bullet format.
    c.  Nominee biography.  If chosen as the award recipient, the biography 
will be used in the American Legion's magazine and convention program.  The 
biography should include hometown information as well as professional 
highlights and qualifications.
    d.  High-resolution photograph.  A photo must also be included for use in 
the publications.  The biography and photo should be similar to those 
commonly associated with CO biographies.

5.  Nomination submission.  Nominations must be received by 30 April 2015 to 
meet the Legion's deadline.  Nominations may be submitted electronically 
(preferred) to the point of contact or hard copy to the following address: 

Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO)
Attn:  Spirit of Service Award
5722 Integrity Drive (456-3)
Millington, TN 38054-5045

6.  Selection process.  NAVCO will consolidate all nominations, organize a 
ranking board, and recommend the top candidates to the American Legion, which 
will make the selection.  NAVCO will inform the winner and also notify those 
not selected.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral S. H. Swift, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#1724
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
