UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 121449Z JAN 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 010/15

SUBJ/U.S. NAVY SENIOR ENLISTED ACADEMY REGISTRATION AND ENROLLMENT PROCESS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//
REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/192102ZNOV14//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 266/14, UNITED STATES NAVY SENIOR ENLISTED ACADEMY//

RMKS/1.  This follow-on message announces the registration and enrollment 
process for the Navy Senior Enlisted Academy*s (SEA) new nine weeks of 
distance learning, followed by three weeks of resident education format in 
Newport, Rhode Island.

2.  Individuals desiring to register for a class can visit the SEA website at 
https://www.usnwc.edu/Departments---Colleges/Senior-Enlisted-Academy/FY-2015-
Registration.aspx. Once on the website, click the *To Register* link.  This 
will take prospective students to the application page in the Empower 
website. After the prospective student successfully completes the 
application, the SEA administration staff will process the application.  Once 
processed, the student will receive an e-mail with their user name and 
password for the Empower website.  The student must log into Empower to 
complete the enrollment and registration process.  After the student logs 
into Empower, they need to select *SEA Students* at the top of the page and 
click on course registration.  This opens the request course page.  Click the 
add courses button.  This will open a screen with the available courses.  
Click the box on the left side of the screen for the desired course.  To 
complete the process, click the register button.  A successful registration 
will open a new screen that says *You have 1 Successful Registration and 0 
Pending Registration.*

3.  Students will not receive an additional e-mail after they complete the 
registration process in Empower.  To verify enrollment, students can view 
their courses in the Empower website.

4.  Students will have up to 10 days prior to the convening of the course to 
drop from the course without penalty.  Students can drop a course through the 
Empower website where they registered.  Students who drop a course within 10 
days of starting or during a course will need to wait 12 months before being 
re-enrolled in a course.  Students being disenrolled for academic and Body 
Composition Assessment failures will have a 12-month waiting period before 
being re-enrolled.

5.  Approximately 24 hours after a student has successfully completed the 
registration process, they will be able to log into blackboard. Students will 
receive the blackboard web address in their registration e-mail.  The student 
login for blackboard is their user name for Empower.  Student password for 
blackboard is the password they will be required to change when they 
initially log into Empower.

6.  Per reference (a), before attending the three-week resident portion of 
the course, the student must have completed the required 70 hours of online 
Primary Professional Military Education via Navy Knowledge Online.  It is 
mandatory that this is done prior to arrival at the SEA. The Department of 
Defense (DoD) Cyber Awareness Challenge and the Personally Identifiable 
Information (PII) General Military Trainings are also mandatory for all users 
of DoD Information Systems as required by Federal Information Security 
Management Act.  All students must provide a printed certificate of 
completion upon check-in at the SEA.

7.  Being within height/weight standards when you arrive is a requirement and 
physical assessments are conducted on the first day.  Anyone arriving to the 
SEA out of standards will be disenrolled and required to wait 12 months prior 
to being re-enrolled in a course.

8.  For clarification purposes, effective March 2015, all active-duty 
personnel attending the SEA will be required to complete the nine weeks of 
distance learning, followed by the three weeks in resident format.

9.  The Senior Enlisted Academy*s points of contact are CMDCM Sidney Dawson, 
Deputy Director, at (401) 841-4270, and Mr. Barry Crawford, Course Director, 
at (401) 841-4944.  Refer to the SEA website for additional information.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
