UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 171457Z MAY 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 126/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2019 JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT 
PROGRAM SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/JAG/30APR13//

AMPN/ JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
AUTHORIZATION 111A.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the Academic Year
2019 (AY-19) Judge Advocate Generals Corps (JAGC) In-Service Procurement 
Program (IPP) Selection Board no earlier than February 2019.  The JAGC IPP 
provides outstanding career-motivated enlisted personnel of all ratings, who 
meet the eligibility criteria to earn a commission in the JAGC.  The AY-19 
board will accept applications for the funded legal education option and the 
direct commission option (DCO).  The deadline for submitting an application 
is 1 December 2018.  Applicants for the funded legal education option must 
begin law school no later than 30 September 2019.

2.  This program is open to active-duty and Navy full-time support enlisted 
Sailors in any rating in paygrades E-5 through E-7 at the time of the 
application.  Applicants must have served on active-duty for a period of no 
less than two years and no more than ten years at the time applications are 
due.  Members of the Individual Ready Reserve or Reservists serving on active 
duty for special work, active duty for training, or one-to-three year recalls 
are not eligible for this program.

3.  Reference (a) provides information on authorized program benefits, 
eligibility, obligated service, and program requirements.
Where information differs between this NAVADMIN and reference (a), this 
NAVADMIN takes precedence.  The requirement in reference (a) for funded legal 
education option applicants to submit at least one law school acceptance 
letter with the application is replaced by the requirements in paragraph 6c 
below to provide an acceptance letter before the board convenes.  No other 
waivers of application requirements will be granted.

4.  Application procedures are provided in reference (a) and this NAVADMIN.  
Further program information can be found at 
http://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/opportunities_ipp.html.

5.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment.  This requirement cannot be waived.

6.  Amplifying education information for the AY-19 board.
    a.  Law School Admission Test (LSAT) exam scores are required for all 
applicants.
    b.  All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from a college or 
university listed in the Directory of Accredited Institutions of Post-
Secondary Education, the Higher Education Directory published annually by 
Higher Education Publishing Incorporated, or The New York State board of 
Regents accrediting agency.  Applicants must submit either their official or 
unofficial transcripts for all degrees earned and a complete list of all 
schools attended.
    c.  Applicants applying to the funded legal education option must provide 
a prioritized list of U.S. law schools accredited by the American Bar 
Association (ABA) to which the applicant has applied.  Applicants are 
encouraged to apply to more than one school.  Applicants must apply to at 
least one law school in which in-state tuition and fees can be obtained and 
one law school near the current duty station of the applicant.  Navy 
applicants must also apply to one school located in a fleet concentration 
area (i.e., Norfolk, VA, Jacksonville/Mayport, FL, San Diego, CA, Pearl 
Harbor, HI, or Washington, DC).  Applicants must provide a copy of any 
acceptance letters received prior to the convening of the selection board.
    d.  Applicants applying for the DCO must have obtained a law degree 
(juris doctor) from a law school considered by the ABA to be accredited at 
the time of their graduation from the law school.
    e.  Applicants for the DCO must submit a letter or certificate of good 
standing from the licensing authority admitting the applicant to the practice 
of law before a federal court or the highest court of a state, a U.S. 
territory, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
    f.  All applicants must obtain a conditional release from their enlisted 
community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must 
submit an Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to their ECM or 
detailer as appropriate.  The AY-19 JAGC IPP selection board will only 
consider enlisted candidates who have a conditional release included in their 
program application.

7.  Applicants must submit their application electronically via AMRDEC SAFE 
(https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/safe/guide.aspx) to navyaccessions(at)navy.mil.  
If you require an exception to the e- submission policy due to operational 
restrictions, please contact
202-685-5273 or navyaccessions(at)navy.mil prior to 1 December 2018.
Additional or amplifying information may be submitted by the applicant to 
navyaccessions(at)navy.mil prior to 14 January 2019.
Incomplete applications will not be reviewed by the board.

8.  In line with reference (a), prior to submitting a completed application, 
applicants are required to complete a structured interview with the JAGC.  
Structured interviews will be conducted in accordance with policy established 
by the Judge Advocate General.
Instructions for scheduling a structured interview may be found at 
http://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/opportunities_ipp.html.
This requirement is separate from and, in addition to, the command interview.

9.  Point of contact is the OJAG Special Assistant for Accessions and can be 
reached at (202) 685-5273/DSN 325 or via e-mail at 
navyaccessions(at)navy.mil.

10.  This message is canceled for record purposes on
30 September 2019.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
