UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 111447Z MAR 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 060/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/ORDER TO UPDATE NAVY FAMILY ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM 
PERSONAL CONTACT INFORMATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/23OCT14//

AMPN/REF A is OPNAVINST 3006.1, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with 
Catastrophic Events.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the semi-annual update/verification of 
personal information in the Navy Family Accountability and Assessment System 
(NFAAS) by all Navy military and civilian personnel that must be completed no 
later than 31 March 2019.  If a record has been updated in the system between 
1 October 2018 and 31 March 2019, that record is considered validated for the 
31 March
2019 deadline.  NFAAS is the system utilized by the Navy to account for 
personnel and their families during widespread natural or man -made 
disasters.  Accurate contact information of personnel and family members is 
required to facilitate a quick and accurate muster of personnel in affected 
areas.  As directed in reference (a), updates of personal information will be 
verified as current semi -annually.

2.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy personnel, uniformed 
(Active Duty and Reserve), Navy civilians and Outside Continental United 
States (OCONUS) contractors in line with the
following:
    a.  It is mandatory for all military personnel to update and
    verify contact information and all categories of dependents.
    b.  It is mandatory for non-bargaining unit civilian employees to
    update their contact information.  Providing dependent information
    is voluntary but highly encouraged.  Choosing not to provide
    dependent information may exclude them from receiving potential
    benefits, if applicable.
    c.  It is mandatory for all OCONUS Contractors to update and
    verify contact information and all categories of dependents.
    d.  It is highly encouraged that bargaining unit civilian
    employees provide their contact and dependent information on a
    voluntary basis, until union notification and subsequent impact and
    implementation bargaining takes place (when applicable).  Providing
    contact information is critical in providing support to DON
    civilians and their dependents during the recovery period following
    a disaster.

3.  Echelon II Commanders, Region Commanders and Region Personnel 
Accountability Representatives will ensure widest dissemination to all 
subordinate, tenant commands, and detachments for action as required.  All 
Commanding Officers (CO)/Officers-in-Charge (OIC) will ensure timely and 
accurate updates of Navy member and family member contact information as 
stated above.  COs/OICs will also contact the Human Resources Office to 
request applicable union notifications. This requirement also includes OCONUS 
contractors (must enter associated unit identification code.)

4.  Additionally, each command will institute policies requiring personnel to 
update their NFAAS data during check-in and check-out as standard practice.  
A tool is available in NFAAS to allow Commanding Officer Representatives 
(COR) to "pull" personnel into their UIC.  Military members/dependents must 
also update NFAAS in any instance in which they make a permanent change of 
address.  Civilian non-bargaining unit employees must update their contact 
information and are highly encouraged to update their dependents information 
on a voluntary basis whenever there is a change.  Civilian bargaining unit 
employees are highly encouraged to update their information whenever there is 
a change.

5.  To update contact data, utilize the NFAAS site at https 
://navyfamily.navy.mil.  Login and update member information under the "My 
Info" tab, "Contact Information" section, and update sponsor's work location 
information.  Update family member information under the "My Info" tab, 
"Family Member Info"
section.  Edit member and family member information as necessary and verify 
as current.  Personnel are required to input their physical address, 
PO/APO/FPO addresses are not authorized.  Additionally, users must ensure 
that a Cell Carrier is selected from the applicable drop-down list.  All 
family members enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program must be 
identified as such.

6.  The NFAAS site can also be accessed from any mobile device web browser.  
All personnel are encouraged to download the latest version of the NFAAS 
mobile app, which provides cognizant resources, checklists, preparation 
guidelines, etc.  The app also provides a link to the mobile version of the 
NFAAS website.  Although the application uses the same URL address as the 
NFAAS website, when accessed via a mobile device, the site will be optimized 
to allow easy viewing and navigation.  If logging into NFAAS for the first 
time, users should use their primary work e-mail address as the username and 
the sponsor's date of birth and last four of the SSN as the password 
(YYYYMMDD0000).  Otherwise, use the login and password you use when logging 
into NFAAS from a computer.  To ensure NFAAS notifications are received via 
the app, users are to go to the dashboard, select "Settings" and ensure the 
"Receive Notifications"
option is enabled.

7.  CORs can validate contact information has been verified by using the 
Reports tab in NFAAS and selecting "Address Information Update Status Roster 
Report by UIC."  Column K contains the date the contact information was last 
updated.

8.  Points of contact:
    a.  NFAAS Help Desk at (866) 946-9183 or via e-mail at
    nfaas(at)spawar.navy.mil.
    b.  NFAAS Asst Program Manager, Chief Isa Grace, at (202) 433
    -4321 or via e-mail at isa.n.grace(at)navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral M. M. Jackson, Commander, Navy Installations 
Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

