UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 071708Z AUG 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 193/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/FY-18 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY LEADERSHIP EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
MASTERS PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the FY-18 
Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) Masters Program. The United 
States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking applications from motivated, 
academically and professionally qualified unrestricted line officers for the 
FY-18 LEAD Masters Program.  Selected officers will serve as both company 
officers and role models for our future naval officers.  The USNA company 
officer masters program is a unique opportunity for junior officers to 
participate in a 36-month graduate education and leadership experience.  The 
program combines a fully-funded masters degree in leadership education and 
development from George Washington University in Washington DC, with a 
required 2 year follow-on commitment as a company officer at USNA in 
Annapolis.  Officers attend classes at George Washington University and the 
Naval Academy.

2.  Additional information can be found on the USNA website at
http://www.usna.edu/lead/lead-masters-program/.

3.  Community specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional eligibility 
requirements follow:
    a.  Surface:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG14 surface warfare qualified officers who have 
demonstrated superior performance at sea, have screened for department head 
(DH) afloat, and who have the career timing to support a 36-month shore duty 
assignment prior to their 7.5 year mark of commissioned service.  Select YG13 
surface warfare officers may be eligible depending on career timing and 
current shore duty assignment.  Nuclear trained officers are also eligible 
for the LEAD Program.  Due to the specific nature of their career timing, it 
is understood that they will rotate earlier than 36 months for DH school 
timing.  All YG13 and YG14 officers should contact their respective Surface 
Warfare Officer Assignment Division (PERS-41) junior officer detailer to 
determine their timeline to DH school.
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations via the 
PERS-41 Talent Management Board.  PERS-41 junior officer detailers will 
assist the nominated officers with their online nomination package 
submission.  All Talent Management Board details will be announced via 
separate correspondence and support the timeline defined in this NAVADMIN.
        (3) A DH retention bonus contract must be submitted immediately upon 
selection for the LEAD program.  DH school attendance and the successful 
completion of two department head tours as defined by PERS-41 is required 
following the completion of USNA assignment.
    b.  Submarine:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG13
        (2) Submarine and Nuclear Officer Assignment Division (PERS-42) will 
review all applications and recommend for selection top performing officers 
who can meet Submarine Officers Advanced Course (SOAC) gate at 7.5 years of 
commissioned service. SOAC attendance and completion of a DH tour is required 
following completion of USNA assignment.
        (3) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations via the 
PERS-42 Talent Management Board.  PERS-42 junior officer shore detailer will 
assist the nominated officers with their online nomination package 
submission.  All Talent Management Board details will be announced via 
separate correspondence and support the timeline defined in this NAVADMIN.
        (4) A Nuclear Officer Incentive Pay contract must be submitted 
immediately upon selection for the LEAD program.  SOAC attendance and the 
successful completion of a department head tour as defined by PERS-42 is 
required following the completion of USNA assignment.
    c.  Aviation:
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG11-13 (eligible for first shore tour)
        (2) Satisfactory Aviation Officer Assignment Divison (PERS-43) 
evaluation.
    d.  Special Warfare:
        (1) Eligible YG:  No restriction
        (2) Completed SEAL Platoon Commander, signed the Naval Special 
Warfare Officer Continuation Pay, and satisfactorily screened by Special 
Warfare Distribution Branch (PERS-415).
    e.  Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD):
       (1) Eligible YG:  YG11-13
       (2) Completed EOD Department Head Qualification, signed the Lieutenant 
EOD Officer Retention Bonus, and satisfactorily screened by EOD Officer 
Assignment and Placement (PERS-416).

4.  Interested officers must:
    a.  Complete an application and forward to respective detailer. A sample 
can be found at http://www.usna.edu/lead/lead-masters-program/.  The 
application package must include:
        (1) Completed application page (PDF fillable version found at the 
website above).
        (2) Official photo (taken within the past 12 months).
        (3) Personal statement that specifically addresses the reason for the 
application to the LEAD program, how the program fits into your career goals 
and your expectations with respect to the program.
        (4) Biography (following the format provided at the website above).
        (5) All higher education transcripts.
        (6) Copy of Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) scores taken within 
the last 5 years (or statement explaining why you are unable to take the GRE 
such as deployment or operational commitments).
        (7) Chain of command endorsement.
        (8) Copy of performance summary record, officer summary record and 
last five fitness reports.
        (9) Additional professional and academic letters of recommendation 
(desired, not required).
    b.  Provide additional original transcripts from all college and/or 
graduate education to:
        LEAD Masters Program Manager
        112 Cooper Road Mail Stop 7-C
        Annapolis Maryland 21402-1305.

        This is in addition to the transcripts required for the application.
    c.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the cognizant 
detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All applications will be vetted 
through detailers to verify career timing impact.

5.  Timeline:
    a.  2 October 2017:  application packages due to detailers.
    b.  1 November 2017:  nominees forwarded to USNA for selection/approval.
    c.  1 December 2017:  USNA selection board complete, results forwarded to 
Graduate Education and Training Placement Division (PERS-443).
    d.  15 December 2017:  no later than date for applicants informed of 
selection/non-selection.
    e.  1 May 2018:  report date for selected individuals.  Classes begin 
mid-May 2018.

6.  Points of contact are LCDR Ian Lopez who can be reached at (901) 874-
4067/DSN 882, fax at (901) 874-2676, or via e-mail at ian.lopez(at)navy.mil 
and LCDR Alex Dietrich who can be reached at (410) 293-6029/DSN 281 or via e-
mail at adietric(at)usna.edu.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
