UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 021322Z MAY 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 106/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FY-18 MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM SELECTION 
BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/DOC/BUMED/3FEB17//
REF/C/DOC/USC/2JAN13/
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS BUMED P-117, MANUAL OF THE 
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.  REF C IS 10 U.S.C. SECTION 6323, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT 
OFFICERS:  20 YEARS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the FY-18 Medical Service 
Corps (MSC) In-Service Procurement Program (IPP) Selection Board.  The MSC 
IPP will convene in the Fall of 2017.  MSC IPP provides a path for qualified, 
career-motivated, enlisted personnel to obtain a commission as an MSC 
officer.  Applications will be accepted for the following specialties:  
Health Care Administration (HCA), Environmental Health, Industrial Hygiene, 
Pharmacy, Physician Assistant (PA), Social Work, Entomology, and Radiation 
Health.

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors, Marines, and Navy 
Full-Time Support (FTS) personnel of any rating in paygrades E-5 through E-9 
at the time of application.  Waivers for exceptionally well qualified Sailors 
in the E-4 paygrade will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  Reservists 
in an FTS status are eligible.  Reservists in any status other than FTS are 
not eligible.

3.  Application procedures and education requirements are outlined in this 
NAVADMIN and in chapters 1, 2, and 6 of reference (a).

4.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment and commissioning.  Age waivers will not be granted.

5.  Amplifying information for the FY-18 MSC IPP selection board.
    a.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a Navy 
nuclear enlisted classification (335x, 336x, 338x, 339x) and are applying for 
the FY-18 MSC IPP selection board must obtain conditional release from 
nuclear field duty prior to submitting their application for consideration 
for the FY-18 selection board. To obtain a conditional release, an applicant 
must submit an Enlisted Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to the 
Chief of Naval Operations Nuclear Propulsion Program Management Branch via 
their detailer.  The FY-18 MSC IPP selection board will only consider nuclear 
enlisted candidates who have a conditional release included in their MSC IPP 
application.
    b.  For applicants not assigned to nuclear programs listed in paragraph 
5a:  Applicants under obligated training require a conditional release from 
their enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit a NAVPERS 1306/7 to their ECM.  The FY-18 MSC IPP 
selection board will only consider enlisted candidates who have a conditional 
release included in their program application.
    c.  Applicants must be worldwide assignable.  In line with reference (a), 
chapter 6 paragraph 3e, applicants must meet precommissioning/accession 
physical standards for appointment as an MSC officer prescribed in reference 
(b), chapter 15.
    d.  American College Testing (ACT), Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), 
Graduate Record Examination (GRE), Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT), 
or applicable scores must be completed within 5 years of application due 
date.
    e.  College board SAT or ACT exam scores are required for all 
Environmental Health Officer, Radiation Health Officer and Industrial Hygiene 
Officer applicants requesting to complete a bachelors degree using military 
funding.  The minimum acceptable SAT score is 1,000 and the minimum ACT score 
is 42 (combined Math and English).  Application packages missing exam scores 
or with scores below the minimum requirement will not be considered by the 
board.
    f.  GRE scores are required for all applicants requesting to complete a 
masters degree using military funding (excluding pharmacy).  For non-masters 
prepared applicants, a GRE score of 300 is required.  Application packages 
missing exam scores will not be considered by the board.
    g.  For applicants applying to the PA program, only SAT scores will be 
accepted.  The minimum acceptable SAT score is 1,000 (minimum Math 460).  
Applications with an SAT Math score below 460 will not be considered by the 
board.
    h.  Pharmacy applicants must submit Pharmacy College Admission Test 
scores as well as an acceptance letter into the professional program from an 
accredited pharmacy school.
    i.  Entomology applicants must possess a bachelors degree prior to June 
2018 with a minimum grade point average of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale and have a GRE 
score of 300 or higher.  Application packages missing exam scores will not be 
considered by the board.  Applicants must include an acceptance letter or a 
tentative letter of acceptance to a full-time graduate degree program from an 
accredited university in entomology.

6.  For HCA applicants, the board will select candidates for two separate 
categories:  direct commission and training.  Applicants are encouraged to 
apply for both categories, if eligible.
    a.  Direct Commission.  Applicants for direct commission must possess a 
qualifying bachelors or masters degree prior to June 2018.
        (1) Qualifying bachelors degrees include HCA, Health Services 
Administration or Management, or in an applicable business or management 
discipline.  Acceptable disciplines include Accounting, Business Economics 
and Policy, Finance, Information Systems Management, Logistics, Manpower, 
Human Resources, Materials Management, and Public Administration.  Applicants 
must have a cumulative grade point average of 2.5 on a 4.0 scale.  Preferred 
candidates will have a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 or higher on a 
4.0 scale.
        (2) Qualifying masters degree for entry grade credit must have an 
emphasis in HCA and must be accredited by one of the following accrediting 
bodies:
            (a) Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Management 
Education, more information is available at http://www.cahme.org,
            (b) The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, 
more information is available at http://www.aacsb.edu,
            (c) The Council on Education for Public Health, more information 
is available at http://www.ceph.org, and
            (d) National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and 
Administration, more information is available at http://www.naspaa.org.  
Preferred applicants will have a graduate cumulative grade point average of 
3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale.
    b.  Training.  HCA applicants for training must possess a qualifying 
degree prior to June 2018.
        (1) Exceptionally qualified applicants without a qualifying bachelors 
degree may be considered on a case-by-case basis if they possess a bachelors 
degree in the Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics fields.  
Likewise, applicants with a graduate degree that does not qualify for entry 
grade credit may be considered on a case-by-case basis if they have a 
graduate cumulative grade point average of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale.
        (2) MSC IPP is not offering full-time out service training for this 
board.  Applicants requesting training will be screened for selection to 
attend full-time in-service training in either the Army-Baylor University 
graduate program in HCA, more information is available at
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/navmedmpte/nmtc/pages/bayloruniversity.aspx or 
the masters in HCA and Policy degree at the Uniformed Services University of 
the Health Sciences, more information is available at 
http://www.usuhs.mil/pmb/mhapcurriculum.html.  A GRE or GMAT score is 
required for all applicants requesting training irrespective of degrees 
currently held.  In addition, applicants must include conditional letters of 
acceptance from one or both schools for inclusion in their IPP package.
        (3) Applicants who currently possess a qualifying masters degree for 
entry grade credit will not be considered for training.

7.  For applicants to the Physician Assistant program:
    a.  College level Medical Terminology is now a mandatory pre- requisite.  
Medical Terminology completed as a requirement of A or C school will not be 
accepted.  All pre-requisite course work must have been completed within the 
past 10 years.
    b.  Official transcripts from all attended academic institutions must be 
requested and sent by the institution directly to the University of Nebraska 
Medical Center (UNMC) no later than 25 July 2017.
    c.  Application to UNMC Physician Assistant Program must be initiated 
online via the WebAdmit/UNICAS system at https://ipap.liaisoncas.com also no 
later than 25 July 2017.  No documents need to be uploaded into the 
WebAdmit/UNICAS system. Note:  Completion of the online application does not 
qualify as submission of the application it is required for administrative 
purposes only.
    d.  Hard-copy applications must be shipped to Navy Medicine Professional 
Development Command by 1 September 2017 in order to be considered (see 
paragraph 10).  Applicants will be notified of their academic eligibility 
well before the official MSC IPP application deadline.

8.  Applicants for the 24 month Master of Social Work (MSW) internship must 
have a masters degree in social work from a graduate school of social work 
accredited by the Council of Social Work Education at http://www.cswe.org, 
with a completion date no later than June 2018.  Candidates with strong 
clinical backgrounds are preferred, with preference given to those able to 
demonstrate experience and proficiency in diagnosis and treatment, trauma, 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, Traumatic Brain Injury, and resiliency. A 
licensed graduate social worker or equivalent is required for internship in 
states that license post-MSW social workers.

9.  In line with references (a) and (c), applicants are reminded that to be 
eligible for voluntary retirement, an applicant appointed as an officer is 
required to complete 20 years of active-duty service, with at least 10 years 
of service as an active commissioned officer.

10.  Applications must be postmarked by 1 September 2017 and mailed to:

     Commanding Officer
     Navy Medicine Professional Development Center
     8955 Wood Road
     Bldg 1 16th Floor, Rms 16141, 16148
     Bethesda, MD 20889-5628

All required documentation must be received by 22 September 2017. Incomplete 
applications received after this date will not be reviewed by the board.  
Detailed application information can be found at 
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/nmpdc/professional-Development/sitepages/.  A 
MARADMIN will outline conditional release procedures for active-duty Marines 
who are selected to participate in the program.

11.  Points of contact are Beverly D. Kemp, Navy Medical Professional 
Development Center, Code O3C HMDT, who can be reached at (301) 319-4520/DSN 
285, or via e-mail at beverly.d.kemp.civ(at)mail.mil and HM2 Ian M. Polage 
who can be reached at (301) 295-0925/DSN 295 or via e-mail at 
ian.m.polage.mil(at)mail.mil.

12.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2018, whichever occurs first.

13.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
