UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 091937Z FEB 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 030/16

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/FEB//

SUBJ/SAMUEL ELIOT MORISON NAVAL HISTORY SUPPLEMENTAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM FOR 
THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2016-2017//

REF/A/DOC/CNO/08JAN2015//
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.24D, OFFICER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM//

RMKS/1.  Per reference (a), Director, Naval History and Heritage
Command (NHHC) is calling for applications for the Samuel Eliot
Morison Naval History Supplemental Scholarship Program for Academic
Year 2016-2017.  The purpose of the scholarship is to promote
development of a broad understanding of naval history within the
American national experience.  Historical knowledge is an invaluable
tool to place current issues in context and for leaders to make
sound decisions.

2.  The scholarship is named in honor of the late Rear Admiral
Samuel Eliot Morison, USNR, an eminent naval and maritime historian
and winner of the Pulitzer Prize.  The scholarship awards $5,000
to one active duty commissioned officer of the U.S. Navy or U.S.
Marine Corps with demonstrated leadership potential and high
academic qualifications who is already pursuing graduate study
in history, international relations, or a related field.  The award
is to help pay for expenses related to research, travel, and the
purchase of books or other educational materials.

3.  Any officer desiring to compete for the Samuel Eliot Morison
Supplemental Scholarship for study beginning in the fall of 2016
(Academic Year 2016-2017) should submit a letter of application via
his/her Commanding Officer to the Senior Historian, NHHC, 805 Kidder
Breese Street, SE, Washington D.C. 20374-5060.  Applications must be
received no later than 29 April 2016.  Please note mail security
procedures for federal agencies in the District of Columbia delay
delivery for three to five business days beyond normal delivery times.
Candidates are reminded to mail applications with adequate time for
delivery or to use a commercial express delivery service.
Applicants on deployment without regular mail access may submit
applications by email to michael.crawford(AT)navy.mil.  Application
packages should provide the following information:
    a.  University presently attending or to which application
has been forwarded and the current status of that application.
    b.  Copy of officer biography.
    c.  A statement from the applicant that includes an outline of
the proposed education program, degree objective, and major.
    d.  A copy of all official college/university graduate and
postgraduate transcripts.
    e.  A statement not to exceed 500 words concerning the
relationship of the Morison Scholarship to the applicants interest
and the value to be derived both by the individual and the Navy.
    f.  Commanding Officers endorsement.
    g.  Contact mailing address and e-mail.

4.  The Director, NHHC will make final selection of the Morison
Scholarship recipient and an alternate by 30 May 2016.  Selection of
finalists will be based on the following:
    a.  Relevance of the chosen area of study to U.S. naval history.
    b.  Demonstrated professional performance with particular
emphasis on the officers specialty.
    c.  Academic ability.
    d.  The career needs of the officer.
    e.  Potential for professional growth.

5.  Point of contact:  Dr. Michael Crawford, at (202) 781-0976,
or via e-mail at michael.crawford(AT)navy.mil.

6.  Released by Vice Admiral R. L Thomas, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
