UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 091302Z MAY 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 114/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2019 MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//

REF/B/DOC/BUMED/3FEB17//

REF/C/DOC/USC/2JAN13/

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS BUMED P-117, MANUAL OF THE 
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.  REF C IS 10 U.S.C. SECTION 6323, VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT 
OFFICERS:  20 YEARS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the AY-19 Medical Service 
Corps (MSC) In-Service Procurement Program (IPP) Selection Board.  The MSC 
IPP will convene in the Fall of 2018.  MSC IPP provides a path for qualified, 
career-motivated, enlisted personnel to obtain a commission as an MSC 
officer.  Applications will be accepted for the following specialties:  
Health Care Administration (HCA), Environmental Health, Industrial Hygiene, 
Physician Assistant (PA), Social Work, Entomology, and Medical 
Technology/Medical Laboratory Scientist.

2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors, Marines, and Navy 
Full-Time Support (FTS) personnel of any rating in paygrades E-5 through E-9 
at the time of application.  Waivers for exceptionally well qualified Sailors 
in the E-4 paygrade will be considered on a case-by-case basis.  Reservists 
in an FTS status are eligible.  Reservists in any status other than FTS are 
not eligible.

3.  Application procedures and education requirements are outlined in this 
NAVADMIN and in chapters 1, 2, and 6 of reference (a).

4.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time of 
initial appointment and commissioning.  Age waivers will not be granted.

5.  Amplifying information for the AY-19 MSC IPP selection board.
    a.  Applicants assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a Navy 
nuclear enlisted classification (335x, 336x, 338x, 339x) and are applying for 
the AY-19 MSC IPP selection board must obtain conditional release from 
nuclear field duty prior to submitting their application for consideration 
for the AY-19 selection board.
To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must submit an Enlisted 
Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to the Chief of Naval Operations 
Nuclear Propulsion Program Management Branch via their detailer.  The AY-19 
MSC IPP selection board will only consider nuclear enlisted candidates who 
have a conditional release included in their MSC IPP application.
    b.  For applicants not assigned to nuclear programs listed in paragraph 
5a:  Applicants under obligated training require a conditional release from 
their enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an 
applicant must submit a NAVPERS
1306/7 to their ECM.  The AY-19 MSC IPP selection board will only consider 
enlisted candidates who have a conditional release included in their program 
application.
    c.  Applicants must be worldwide assignable.  In line with chapter 6 
paragraph 3e of reference (a), applicants must meet 
precommissioning/accession physical standards for appointment as an MSC 
officer prescribed in chapter 15 of reference (b).
    d.  American College Testing (ACT), Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), 
Graduate Record Examination (GRE), Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT), 
or applicable scores must be completed within five years of application due 
date.
    e.  College board SAT or ACT exam scores are required for all 
Environmental Health Officer and Industrial Hygiene Officer applicants 
requesting to complete a bachelors degree using military funding.  The 
minimum acceptable SAT score is 1,000 and the minimum ACT score is 42 
(combined Math and English).  Application packages missing exam scores or 
with scores below the minimum requirement will not be considered by the 
board.
    f.  GRE or GMAT scores are required for all applicants requesting to 
complete a masters degree using military funding.  For non-masters prepared 
applicants, a GRE score of 300 or GMAT score of
525 is required.  Waivers will be considered by the Board on a case- by-case 
basis.  Application packages missing exam scores will not be considered by 
the board.
    g.  For applicants applying to the PA program, only SAT scores will be 
accepted.  The minimum acceptable SAT score is 1,000 (minimum Math 460).  
Applications with an SAT Math score below 460 will not be considered by the 
board.
    h.  Entomology applicants must possess a bachelors degree prior to the 
board with a minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a

4.0 scale and have a GRE score of 300 or higher.  Application packages 
missing exam scores will not be considered by the board.
Applicants must include an acceptance letter or a tentative letter of 
acceptance to a full-time graduate degree program from an accredited 
university in entomology.

6.  For HCA applicants, the board will select candidates for two separate 
categories:  Direct commission and training.  Applicants are encouraged to 
apply for both categories, if eligible.
    a.  Direct Commission.  Applicants for direct commission must possess a 
qualifying bachelors or masters degree prior to the board.
        (1) Qualifying bachelors degrees include HCA, Health Services 
Administration or Management, or in an applicable business or management 
discipline.  Acceptable disciplines include Accounting, Business Economics 
and Policy, Finance, Information Systems Management, Logistics, Manpower, 
Human Resources, Materials Management, and Public Administration.  Applicants 
must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale.
        (2) Qualifying masters degree for entry grade credit must have an 
emphasis in HCA and must be accredited by one of the following accrediting 
bodies:
            (a) Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Management 
Education, more information is available at http://www.cahme.org,
            (b) The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, 
more information is available at http://www.aacsb.edu,
            (c) The Council on Education for Public Health, more information 
is available at http://www.ceph.org, and
            (d) National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and 
Administration, more information is available at http://www.naspaa.org.
    b.  Training.  HCA applicants for training must possess a qualifying 
degree prior to the board.
        (1) Exceptionally qualified applicants without a qualifying bachelors 
degree may be considered on a case-by-case basis if they possess a bachelors 
degree in the Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics fields.  
Likewise, applicants with a graduate degree that does not qualify for entry 
grade credit may be considered on a case-by-case basis if they have a 
graduate cumulative GPA of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale.
        (2) MSC IPP is not offering full-time out service training for this 
board.  Applicants requesting training will be screened for selection to 
attend full-time in-service training in either the Army-Baylor University 
graduate program in HCA, more information is available at 
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/navmedmpte/nmtc/pages/bayloruniversity
.aspx or the masters in HCA and Policy degree at the Uniformed Services 
University of the Health Sciences, more information is available at 
https://www.usuhs.edu/mhap.  A GRE or GMAT score is required for all 
applicants requesting training irrespective of degrees currently held.  In 
addition, applicants must include conditional letters of acceptance from one 
or both schools for inclusion in their IPP package.
        (3) Applicants who currently possess a qualifying masters degree for 
entry grade credit will not be considered for training.

7.  For applicants to the Physician Assistant program:
    a.  Applicants must have a minimum of 60 semester hours of fully 
transferable college credit and all pre-requisite courses must be completed 
before 27 July 2018.  The minimum required overall GPA is

3.0 on a 4.0 scale and 3.0 for all science and biology courses.
    b.  College level Medical Terminology is now a mandatory pre- requisite.  
Medical Terminology completed as a requirement of A or C school will not be 
accepted.  All pre-requisite course work must have been completed within the 
past 10 years.
    c.  Official transcripts from all attended academic institutions must be 
requested and sent by the institution directly to the University of Nebraska 
Medical Center (UNMC) no later than (NLT)
27 July 2018.  The UNMC online application provides the appropriate mailing 
address.
    d.  Application to UNMC Physician Assistant Program must be initiated 
online via the WebAdmit/UNICAS system at https://ipap.liaisoncas.com also NLT 
27 July 2018.  No documents need to be uploaded into the WebAdmit/UNICAS 
system.  Note:
Completion of the online application does not qualify as submission of the 
application it is required for administrative purposes only.
    e.  Hard-copy applications must be shipped to Navy Medicine Professional 
Development Command by 1 September 2018 in order to be considered (see 
paragraph 11).  Applicants will be notified of their academic eligibility 
well before the official MSC IPP application deadline.

8.  Applicants for the 24 month Master of Social Work (MSW) internship must 
have a masters degree in social work from a graduate school of social work 
accredited by the Council of Social Work Education at http://www.cswe.org, 
before the board meets.
Candidates with a strong clinical background and educational focus in 
military trauma, post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, 
acute suicide and homicidal risk, and resiliency are preferred.  Preference 
is given to those who are able to demonstrate experience and proficiency in 
assessment, diagnosis, and dispositional planning of conditions as indicated 
in the most current Diagnostic Statistical Manual using current evidence 
based treatments.  A licensed graduate social worker or equivalent is 
required for internship in states that license post-MSW social workers.

9.  Applicants for Medical Technology/Medical Laboratory Scientist must have:
    a.  A qualifying degree from an accredited university with a 3.0 or 
better GPA on a 4.0 scale and a cumulative GPA of 3.0 for all core science 
courses.
    b.  Four college-level courses in biological, chemical, or natural 
sciences.  Courses completed as a requirement of A or C school do not fulfill 
this requirement.
    c.  Four years of laboratory experience as a trained technician in a 
medical treatment facility under the supervision of a lab officer.  Preferred 
candidates will have three years of supervised laboratory experience within 
the last six years.
    d.  Applicants must possess a Medical Laboratory Scientist (MLS) 
certification from the American Society of Clinical Pathologists (ASCP).  No 
other certification will be accepted.

10.  In line with references (a) and (c), applicants are reminded that to be 
eligible for voluntary retirement, an applicant appointed as an officer is 
required to complete 20 years of active-duty service, with at least 10 years 
of service as an active commissioned officer.

11.  Applications must be postmarked by 1 September 2018 and mailed
to:
     Commanding Officer
     Navy Medicine Professional Development Center
     8955 Wood Road
     Bldg 1 16th Floor, Rms 16141, 16148
     Bethesda, MD 20889-5628
All required documentation must be received by 21 September 2018.
Incomplete applications received after this date will not be reviewed by the 
board.  Detailed application information can be found at 
http://www.med.navy.mil/sites/nmpdc/professional-
development/sitepages/.  A MARADMIN will outline conditional release 
procedures for active-duty Marines who are selected to participate in the 
program.

12.  Board results will be released at the aforementioned Navy Medicine 
Professional Development Center website once approved.

13.  Point of contact is Beverly D. Kemp, Navy Medicine Professional 
Development Center, Code O3C HMDT, and can be reached at (301) 319- 4520/DSN 
285, or via e-mail at beverly.d.kemp.civ(at)mail.mil.

14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or
30 September 2019, whichever occurs first.

15.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

