UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 211649Z JUN 17

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 146/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/UNIFORM POLICY UPDATE NEW GROOMING STANDARDS, JOINT IDENTIFICATION 
BADGES, MATERNITY UNIFORM AND STANDARDIZED PRISONER UNIFORMS//

REF/A/DOC/DODI/11MAR13//

REF/B/DOC/BUPERSINST/22NOV16//

REF/C/DOC/NAVPERS/1JAN03//

REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/041928ZAUG16//

NARR/REF A IS DODI 1325.07, ADMINISTRATION OF MILITARY CORRECTIONAL 
FACILITIES AND CLEMENCY AND PAROLE AUTHORITY.  REF B IS BUPERSINST 1640.21B, 
THE MILITARY MODEL OF NAVY CORRECTIONS.  REF C IS NAVPERS 15665I, U.S. NAVY 
UNIFORM REGULATIONS.  REF D IS NAVADMIN 174/16, NAVY UNIFORM UPDATE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the implementation of expanded female 
grooming standards policy, approval to wear two new Joint Command 
identification badges, an update on Navy Working Uniform Type I (NWU I) 
Maternity Uniform availability, and the Standard Prisoner Uniform.

2.  Expanded Hair Grooming Policy for Female Sailors.  Effective immediately, 
female Sailors wearing a bun hairstyle with a Navy or command ball cap are 
authorized to position the bun through the rear opening of the ball cap if 
the design of the ball cap allows for wearing the hair and cap in that 
fashion.

3.  Expanded Earring Policy for Female Sailors.  Effective immediately, the 
earring policy for female Sailors (officer and
enlisted) is expanded and authorizes the wear of white pearl earrings 4 
millimeter  6 millimeter (approximately 1/8 inch  1/4
inch) with Dress Uniforms and white diamond earrings 4 millimeter
6 millimeter round cut (approximately 1/8 inch  1/4 inch) with Dinner Dress 
Blue and White Jacket uniforms.  Synthetic variants of pearl or diamond 
earrings are acceptable if they meet color and size requirements.

4.  Defense Health Agency (DHA) Identification Badge.  Effective immediately, 
Sailors assigned to the staff of DHA are authorized to wear the DHA 
identification badge during the duration of their assignment only.
    a.  Description.  The DHA identification badge is available in two sizes.  
The two inch diameter badge is to be worn with Full Dress uniforms.  The 1 
1/2 inch diameter badge has an identical design for wear with Service, Dinner 
Dress and Formal uniforms.  The outer rim of the badge is gold rope which 
symbolizes honor and dedication to service.  It encompasses a light blue 
globe.  Light blue is traditionally associated with the Department of Defense 
and the globe represents the health services provided to military and their 
families throughout the world.  The foreground is a raised shield containing 
our nations colors of red, white and blue with seven white stars representing 
the seven entities served by the DHA.
Centered on the shield is a green serpent on the Staff of Asclepius which is 
traditionally associated with military medical units.
Attached below the shield is a white scroll with a silver border inscribed 
PRO CURA MILITIS in silver letters which translates to The care of the 
warrior.  There is no cloth version of the identification badge, only metal.
    b.  Manner of Wear.  The DHA identification badge is a Joint/Unified 
Command identification badge and shall be worn in the same manner as 
prescribed in reference (c) for the Office of the Secretary of Defense and 
Joint Chiefs of Staff badges.

5.  Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) Identification Badge.
Effective immediately, Sailors assigned to the staff of DPAA are authorized 
to wear the DPAA identification badge during the duration of their assignment 
only.
    a.  Description.  The DPAA identification badge is contained within a 
circular silver-based disc that is 2 inches in diameter.
The center is white enamel representing honor and integrity.  The top half 
has the shield of the United States [the Chief (a chief is a charge on a coat 
of arms that takes the form of a band running horizontally across the top 
edge of the shield) in blue enamel with seven alternating white and red 
stripes] superimposed on a gilt eagle above a black and silver POW/MIA 
emblem.  There is a raised gilt wreath on either side of the eagle and 
POW/MIA emblem representing honor and excellence.  Around the outer edge of 
the badge is the Agency name in silver lettering on black enamel.  The black 
represents the solemnness of the mission.  The miniature badge is 1 1/2 
inches in diameter with five alternating white and red stripes on the shield, 
but otherwise identical to the full-size badge.  There is no cloth version of 
the identification badge, only metal.
    b.  Manner of Wear.  The DPAA identification badge is a Joint/Unified 
Command identification badge and shall be worn in the same manner as 
prescribed in reference (c) for the Office of the Secretary of Defense and 
Joint Chiefs of Staff badges.

6.  NWU Maternity Uniforms.  As announced in reference (d), the Navy is 
shifting from NWU Type I to Type III beginning October 2017.
Since this announcement and to prevent wasteful spending, the Navy has 
endorsed a significant reduction in the production of Type I uniforms, 
including the maternity blouses and trousers.  This may be evident at Uniform 
Centers located inside Navy Exchange (NEX) stores where the NWU Type I 
maternity selection is very limited.  However, the Type III selection at 
those same stores is available in adequate quantities.  As indicated in 
NAVADMIN 174/16, effective October 2016, Sailors have been authorized the 
optional wear of the NWU Type III at commanding officer discretion.  
Furthermore, as applicable at some commands, the Service maternity uniform is 
also authorized.  In an effort to maximize the availability of the remaining 
Type I maternity uniforms, NEX has made the remaining items available through 
the NEX Uniform Support Center (www.mynavyexchange.com) and consolidated 
inventory at a few NEX stores in the larger fleet concentrated areas.  
Effective the date of this NAVADMIN, pregnant Sailors who are not able to 
obtain a maternity uniform in the NWU I pattern are authorized to purchase 
the NWU III maternity uniform.

7.  Standard Prison Uniform.  Per reference (a), military Services may 
prescribe mandatory clothing or uniforms for prisoners in a military 
confinement facility operated by that Service.  Navy Corrections confines 
U.S. military personnel from all Service branches at Navy Shore Confinement 
Facilities.  Currently, prisoners wear their respective Service uniform while 
confined.  Commencing July 2017, the directed wear of a Standardized Prisoner 
Uniform will apply to all prisoners confined in Navy Shore Confinement 
Facilities, regardless of Service affiliation.
    a.  Per reference (b), the Navy Personnel Command Corrections and 
Programs Office (PERS-00D) will transition prisoner uniform requirements from 
Service specific uniforms to a Standard Prisoner Uniform.  This transition 
will significantly enhance correctional security and public safety.  Upon 
arrival and in-processing at a Navy Shore Confinement Facility, the prisoner 
will be issued and sign for their prisoner uniform components.  Navy 
Personnel Command
(PERS-00D) will resource Standard Prisoner Uniform requirements.
    b.  Standard Prisoner Uniform Description (men and women).  The color of 
the Standard Prisoner Uniform worn is based on the legal status of the 
prisoner.  Prisoners in a pre-trial status will wear chocolate brown colored 
long-sleeved, button-down shirt/blouse and front zipper and belt loop 
trousers/slacks.  Post-trial prisoners will wear a khaki-color variant of the 
pre-trial uniform.  Uniform accessories include black web belt with subdued 
open-face buckle, orange watch cap, orange ball cap and chocolate brown 
jacket.
    c.  Navy commands are advised to contact the Navy Shore Confinement 
Facility for a list of initial mandatory confinement requirements prior to 
escorting the prisoner to the facility.
Reference (c) will be revised to remove article 6409 (Personnel in 
Confinement within Naval Facilities).  To contact Navy Confinement Facilities 
regarding uniform requirements and other inquiries visit
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/correctionprograms/brigs/Pages/default2.aspx
    d.  Direct questions regarding the Standard Prisoner Uniform should be 
directed to Mr. Jonathan Godwin at (901) 874-4468/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
jonathan.godwin(at)navy.mil.

8.  Direct questions regarding the contents of this NAVADMIN should be 
directed to the Uniform Matters Office via e-mail to Mr. Robert B. Carroll, 
Head of Navy Uniform Matters, at robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil, 
LSCM(AW/EXW/SW) Judith P. Nelson- Williams, Deputy Head, at 
judith.nelson(at)navy.mil, or PSC(SW/AW) Manuel A. Guiracocha at 
manuel.guiracocha(at)navy.mil.

9.  Direct questions regarding uniform availability should be directed to Mr. 
Gregory Determan, Navy Exchange Uniform Program Management Office, at 
gregory.determan(at)nexweb.org.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until reference (c) has been updated 
to reflect the new policy changes.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
