UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 051709Z AUG 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 180/19

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUG//

SUBJ/ NAVY SURGEON GENERAL STATEMENT ON MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES 
TRANSITION//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides Sailors and their families with information 
about the transition of Navy military medical treatment facilities (MTF) to 
the Defense Health Agency (DHA).  The Department of Defense Military Health 
System (MHS) is undergoing a transition as administration and management of 
the Services' hospitals and clinics are transferred to DHA.  This is 
occurring over several years with a goal envisioned by Congress that the MHS 
become a more standardized and a more integrated system of healthcare 
services.  The Services have been working closely with DHA on the details and 
specifics of this transition.

2.  This transition should be seamless to you.  During this transition, you 
should see no immediate impact to access, healthcare services, or the things 
you and your families need.  As this is a new role for DHA, the Services have 
continued, and will continue, to provide support and assistance to ensure our 
MTF's remain fully functional, and there is no immediate impact to care or 
services during transition until DHA is able to assume full administrative 
and management responsibility.  Likewise, our Fleet and Fleet Marine Force 
Commanders should see no changes in Fleet or Fleet Marine Force support.  
Medical and medical support services required for operational support, all 
personnel who provide those services, and all uniformed personnel will remain 
within the Navy lifelines and under Navy control.

3.  This transition is a multi-year effort, which started for the Navy in 
October 2018 when Naval Hospital Jacksonville transferred under DHA's 
administration and management.  On 1 October 2019, more Navy MTFs in the U.S. 
will transition to the DHA.  OCONUS MTFs, in a phased approach, will 
transition after all CONUS facilities, with the transfer of administration 
and management completed no later than 30 September 2021.

4.  As we shift administration and management responsibilities of these MTFs 
to DHA, it will create opportunity for Navy Medicine to increase focus on 
operational support and keeping Service Members healthy and on the job.  It 
will also enable us to enhance focus on unit support during sustained high 
tempo operations while creating opportunities for us to better prepare the 
medical force to deliver high combat survival and support in the future.  We 
make a commitment to every Sailor, Marine, and their family that we will 
provide them the best care our nation can offer and do all in our power to 
return them home safely and alive.   This transition will assist us in 
honoring that commitment.

5.  For additional information, contact your local MTF or ask your care 
providers.  More information on the overall initiative can be found at 
https://navymedicine.navylive.dodlive.mil/.

6.  We at Navy Medicine will always honor the trust placed on us to provide 
the best care possible to those who defend our freedom and their families.  
Wherever a Sailor or Marine goes, Navy Medicine will always be there.  My 
commitment is to keep you fully informed as this continues.  Thank you so 
much for the trust and faith you place in Navy Medicine every day.

7.  Released by Ms. Steffanie B. Easter, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

