UNCLASSIFIED/

ROUTINE

R 192102Z NOV 14 PSN 450770K23

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

SUBJ/UNITED STATES NAVY SENIOR ENLISTED ACADEMY// 

NAVADMIN 266/14

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV// 

Rmks/1.  In alignment with the Chief of Naval Operations* vision set forth in 
the 2013 Navy Leader Development Strategy, and the Master Chief Petty Officer 
of the Navy*s (MCPON) focus on developing leaders, the Navy Senior Enlisted 
Academy (SEA) is expanding its delivery format to afford every Navy senior 
chief petty officer
(SCPO) (E-8) the opportunity to attend the SEA prior to selection to master 
chief petty officer (MCPO) (E-9).

2.  Starting in Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 (October 2016), all newly selected 
SCPO*s will be required to complete the SEA in Newport, Rhode Island, or 
attend either the United States Air Force Senior Enlisted Academy, United 
States Marine Corps Senior Enlisted Academy, Coast Guard Senior Enlisted 
Academy, or the Joint Special Warfare Academy in order to be eligible for 
advancement to MCPO.
Currently, the SEA resident course is six weeks.  To meet the increased 
resident demand without compromising content, the SEA will modify its 
delivery format to nine weeks of distance learning online, prior to three 
weeks of resident education in Newport.
During the nine weeks of distance learning, each senior chief should expect 
to spend approximately three to five hours per week on assignments.  From the 
SEA perspective, reducing the resident portion to three weeks allows the SEA 
to increase the number of classes per year without increasing the SEA*s 
footprint requirements for base infrastructure.  From the student 
perspective, reducing the resident requirement from six weeks to three weeks 
significantly reduces the Sailor*s time away from home and parent command, 
while not compromising educational content.

3.  The present SEA blended course format (six weeks of distance learning 
followed by two weeks of rigorous in resident education) will continue to be 
the primary method to attend the SEA for Reserve component Sailors.  As of 
October 2015, all active-duty personnel attending the SEA will be required to 
complete the nine weeks of distance learning, followed by the three weeks in 
resident format.
The enrollment requirements remain the same.

4.  Those Sailors who have already earned the rank of senior chief or are 
selected prior to the FY 2017 board will be grandfathered under the old 
policy and will not be required to attend the SEA.
The course still remains a requirement for those who have been selected to 
become a Command Senior Chief, Command Master Chief and/or Chief of the Boat.

5.  Limited funding will be available during a permanent-change- of-station 
transfer.  The vast majority of senior chiefs will attend the SEA on 
temporary-assigned duty orders.  The primary funding for the program will 
come from the Naval War College.

6.  As a prerequisite to attending the SEA, students must have completed the 
required 70 hours of online Primary Professional Military Education via Navy 
Knowledge Online.  It is mandatory that this work be completed prior to 
arrival at the SEA.  The Department of Defense (DoD) Cyber Awareness 
Challenge and the Personally Identifiable Information training modules are 
also mandatory for all users of DoD information systems as required by the 
Federal Information Security Management Act.  All students must provide a 
printed certificate of completion upon check-in at the SEA.

7.  Students must also be within body composition assessment standards upon 
arrival.  Any student arriving to the SEA out of standards will be 
disenrolled and required to wait 12 months prior to re-enrollment in the 
course.  Any student who fails the course due to his/her academic performance 
will also have to wait 12 months to re-enroll in the course.

8.  In general, waivers will not be approved.  However, exceptions may be 
made on a case-by-case basis to deal with any extenuating circumstances.  
Upon selection to SCPO, it is imperative that the potential student*s Command 
Senior Enlisted Leader conduct a Career Development Board to determine 
earliest possible enrollment into the SEA.  Poor career planning will not be 
considered a reason for waiver approval.  Waiver requests will be submitted 
by the member*s Command Senior Enlisted Leader and forwarded to his/her 
respective Fleet Master Chief via their Immediate Superior In Command and 
Force Master Chief or direct-report Command Senior Enlisted Leader for 
his/her concurrence.  The request will then be forwarded directly to MCPON 
for final approval.

9.  For additional information, refer to the SEA website for the initial 
course schedule.

10.  The Senior Enlisted Academy*s points of contact are CMDCM Jason Wallis, 
Director, at (401) 841-2912, CMDCM Sidney Dawson, Deputy Director, at (401) 
841-4270, and PSCM Danielle Gunsett, Course Director, at (401) 841-4946.

11.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

12.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#9097
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
