UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 151415Z JAN 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
CMC WASHINGTON DC
COMDT COGARD WASHINGTON DC
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 012/16

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/JAN//

SUBJ/2016 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AWARDS SOLICITATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1650.26D/14DEC15//
AMPN/NAVAL INTELLIGENCE AWARDS PROGRAM//
POC/NESBITT/CDR/OPNAV N2N6C1/-/TEL:  (703) 604-6293/TEL:  DSN 664-
6293/EMAIL:  INTELAWARDS(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  Reference (a) is the Naval Intelligence Awards program that 
recognizes excellence and outstanding achievement in Naval Intelligence.  
This NAVADMIN builds on guidance provided in reference (a) and solicits 
nominations.
    a.  Rear Admiral Thomas A. Brooks Intelligence Junior Officer of the Year 
Award recognizes junior officers for their leadership, performance, special 
accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, morale, and 
welfare while afloat or ashore.  Two junior officers (Active or Reserve 
Component) will be selected, one for the afloat category and one for the 
ashore category.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence officers 
(183X/683X) O-1 through O-3 are eligible.
    b.  Commander Dan F. Shanower Intelligence Specialist of the Year Award 
recognizes Intelligence Specialists for their performance, leadership, 
special accomplishments, and overall contribution to command efficiency, 
morale and welfare.  A total of four Active or Reserve Component Intelligence 
Specialists, a Junior and Senior Intelligence Specialist of the Year each, 
will be selected for the ashore and afloat categories.  Active and Reserve 
Component Intelligence Specialists in pay grades E-1 through E-5 are eligible 
to compete for the Junior Intelligence Specialist of the Year award.  Active 
and Reserve Component Intelligence Specialists in pay grade E-6, including 
those who are frocked to E-6 during eligibility period, are eligible to 
compete for the Senior Intelligence Specialist of the Year award.
    c.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership recognizes 
leadership from deserving Active or Reserve Component officer, enlisted, or 
civilian personnel who exemplify excellence and exceptional dedication to 
duty within the Naval Intelligence community.  Two candidates will be 
selected for this award, one Active Duty or civilian candidate and one 
Reserve Component candidate.  Active or Reserve Component Naval Intelligence 
officers (183X/683X) O-5 and O-6, or Chief Warrant Officers (CWO) (783X) CWO-
2 through CWO-5, Intelligence Specialists E-6 through E-9, or civilians 
General Schedule (GS) or General Government (GG) 14-15, or equivalent are 
eligible.
    d.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in Intelligence 
Instruction recognizes excellence in intelligence instruction.  Two 
candidates will be selected, one from the Center for Information Dominance 
(CID) Unit Hampton Roads and one from CID Unit San Diego.  Active and Reserve 
Component U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps personnel serving as instructors, 
faculty, or staff at CID Unit Hampton Roads and CID Unit San Diego are 
eligible.
    e.  Rear Admiral Edwin T. Layton Award for Leadership and Mentorship 
recognizes outstanding leadership and mentorship in the furtherance of Naval 
Intelligence performance.  There is no set number of awards to be given each 
year.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence officers (183X/683X) 
O-4 through O-6, CWOs (783X) CWO-3 through CWO-5, and Intelligence 
Specialists E-6 through E-9 are eligible.
    f.  Herman Dworkin Award for Maritime Analytic Excellence recognizes a 
civilian or military analyst working maritime issues who exemplifies the work 
ethic and attitude of Mr. Dworkin.  One candidate will be selected for this 
award.  Active and Reserve Component Naval Intelligence officers (183X/683X) 
O-3 through O-4, CWOs (783X) CWO-2 through CWO-5, and civilians GS/GG 11-14 
or equivalent are eligible.  Nominees must have at least 10 years of 
experience in the field of maritime intelligence analysis and be currently 
analytically active.

2.  Submission Requirements are outlined in reference (a).  The period of 
eligibility for the Rear Admiral Thomas A. Brooks Intelligence Junior Officer 
of the Year Award is 1 September 2014 to 31 December 2015.  The eligibility 
period for all other awards is 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.

3.  Submission Instructions.  With the two exceptions below, the nominees 
current command must forward all award nomination packages via encrypted 
email to the message POC.  All emails must have the award name and the last 
name of the nominee in the subject line.
    a.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Leadership Reserve Component 
nominations:  forward all packages to Commander, Information Dominance Corps 
Reserve Command via encrypted email to YN1 Bracamonte, 
adrian.bracamonte(at)navy.mil; YN2 Palacios, ricardo.palacios1(at)navy.mil; 
YN3 Jones, tommie.jones(at)navy.mil; and YNSR Polk, andre.polk(at)navy.mil.
    b.  Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor Award for Excellence in
Intelligence Instruction nominations: forward all packages to respective CID 
Unit POCs via encrypted email to Mr. Larry Banks, larry.banks(at)navy.mil 
(CID Unit Hampton Roads) or Ms. Stephanie Storch, 
stephanie.storch(at)navy.mil (CID Unit San Diego).

4.  All packages shall be received no later than 31 March 2016.

5.  Reference (a) covers recognition details for each award.  For any 
questions contact the message POC.

6.  The nomination template is posted to the Navy Information Warfare 
Outreach page on milSuite at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-244835
(Common Access Card login required).  Reference (a) and the award nomination 
template do not require the use of Social Security Numbers or other unneeded 
personal information, commands should avoid including unnecessary personal 
information in nomination packages.

7.  Incomplete packages or packages failing to meet all guidance as outlined 
in this message and reference (a) will not be considered.  Late submissions 
will not be accepted.

8.  Released by VADM Ted N. Branch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Dominance, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
