UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 181441Z APR 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 094/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//

SUBJ/FY-18 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/221403ZMAR13//
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 070/13, NUCLEAR TRAINED 
SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
FY-18 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) Commissioning Program.

2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all paygrades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).

3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-18 STA-21 Program is 1 
July 2017.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the deadline 
date.  It is recommended that applications be mailed prior to the deadline as 
early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for submission of 
missing or illegible documents.  Deadline for submission of additional 
documentation to a package is 1 August 2017.  No additional documents can be 
added after this date.  The selection board is scheduled to convene in
September 2017, and the selectees will be announced via NAVADMIN.

4.  The following target options and core are open for application for the 
FY-18 Selection Board:  Surface Warfare, Nuclear (Surface/Submarine), Special 
Warfare, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, Pilot, Civil 
Engineer Corps, Nurse Corps, and Information Professional.

5.  The following target options have zero select opportunity for FY-18:  
Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Surface Warfare Officer 
(SWO)/Engineering Option, SWO/Information Professional Option, 
SWO/Oceanography Option, Medical Corps, Supply Corps, and Oceanography.

6.  The Nuclear (Surface/Submarine) target option is open to Sailors who hold 
an active nuclear Navy enlisted classification (335X, 336X, 338X, or 339X) or 
Sailors who are students in the Navy nuclear power training pipeline.  
Applicants must be able to begin their coursework prior to commencing their 
eighth year of service.  See the Nuclear Program Authorization dated December 
2015 for more specific information and all other requirements to apply for 
the program.  Additionally, all nuclear trained Sailors wishing to apply to 
any STA-21 program must receive a conditional release, pursuant to reference 
(b), from the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D).

7.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the FY-17 STA-21 
selection process and board.  This information is provided to preclude common 
errors:
    a.  Of the 342 applications received for FY-17, only 302 were board 
eligible.  A total of 50 were selected to participate in the FY-17 STA-21 
Program.
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying 
scholastic aptitude test (SAT) or American college test (ACT) test scores, 
missing commanding officer (CO) endorsement/recommendation, recent non-
judicial punishment, missing physical fitness assessment (PFA) cycles, 
missing or illegible submission of documents, and not meeting program age or 
PFA requirements.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.  
Officer interview boards shall consist of three officers.  The applicants CO 
may not be a board member and should not submit an interview appraisal sheet.  
The COs personal interview should be conducted only after the application is 
complete and the officer interview board has submitted their appraisals.  The 
full picture of academic and officer potential of the applicant can only be 
determined by reviewing the SAT/ACT scores, high school/college transcripts, 
and a completed application package.
    d.  The CO endorsement is extremely important, especially the ranking of 
the individual among his/her peers.  The endorsement should contain specifics 
about academic potential, commitment, leadership, service above self, and 
potential as a naval officer of the individual.  CO comments should specify 
the primary option to which the individual is applying and address how the 
individual meets qualifications for that option.  For junior Sailors with 
only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in his or her 
endorsement.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board shall be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  It is recommended that officers of the applicants 
designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in the 
interview/nomination review board to assess the applicant for their 
community.  Officer appraisals provide important insight on the applicant.  
The appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
applicants leadership and academic potential.  Appraisal forms should be 
typed in 10 or 12 point font.
    f.  The applicants personal statement should address why the Sailor wants 
to become an officer, how the Sailors selection would improve the Navy, and 
why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must also address 
any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  Junior 
Sailors should provide information on high school experiences as high school 
transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in sports, 
clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should address 
any anomalies in the package (e.g., poor high school, college, or service 
school grades or poor evaluation performance). The explanation should include 
details of the situation, how the applicant has overcome these issues, and 
why the applicant will be successful in the future.
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant. Applicants must 
review their packages in their entirety before submitting.  Check for 
misspelled words and improper grammar. Ensure all transcripts (high school 
and all colleges) are enclosed. Within the last year, applicants must have 
passed the PFA, to include body composition assessment and the physical 
readiness test with performance in the good category.  For applicants who 
received a waiver on the most recent PFA, points will be awarded from the 
most recent observed score from the latest full test taken within a year of 
application (i.e. Fall 2016 and Spring 2017).  A grade of satisfactory or 
failure on either of the above two required PFAs will make the applicant 
ineligible.
    h.  Qualifying SAT/ACT scores are required.  Include any additional 
recommendations, qualifications, or other accomplishments as a part of the 
package.
    i.  It is recommended that the command retain a copy of the entire 
application package.  The command copy should not be given to the applicant.

8.  Mail completed applications to:
    Commander
    Naval Service Training Command (OD2/STA 21)
    250 Dallas Street Ste A
    Pensacola, FL 32508-5268

9.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements, and selection procedures, refer to reference (a), contact your 
command career counselor, or visit the STA-21 website at www.sta-21.navy.mil 
for the most up-to-date information.

10.  Point of contact is Naval Service Training Command, STA-21 Program 
Officer, at (850) 452-9433/DSN 459 or via e-mail at pnsc_sta21(at)navy.mil.  
Point of contact for nuclear trained Sailors is the Nuclear Enlisted 
Community Manager, OPNAV N133D at (703) 604-5491/DSN 664 or via e-mail at 
bullnuke(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
