UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 291647Z NOV 16
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 261/16

SUBJ/ATHOC WIDE AREA ALERT NOTIFICATION SYSTEM REGISTRATION//

REF/A/DOC/CNICINST 2000.3/01NOV10//
REF/B/DOC/DODINST 6055.17/13JAN09//
REF/C/DOC/OPNAVINST 3440.17A/01AUG14//
REF/D/DOC/CNICINST 3440.17/23JAN06//
NARR/REF A is the CNIC Wide Area Alert Network instruction. References B thru 
D establish requirements for mass warning and notification of installation 
personnel during crises or other emergency events.//RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN 
promulgates guidance for individual registration on the AtHoc Wide Area Alert 
Notification (WAAN) system. The AtHoc WAAN system provides Navy installations 
with an effective mass warning notification system during a crisis to warn 
affected Sailors and civilians who live and work on Navy installations.

2.  Background:
    a.  Crisis events ranging from natural disasters to the shootings at the 
Washington Navy Yard and Chattanooga have demonstrated the requirement to 
rapidly disseminate emergency information to personnel. In 2008, Navy 
deployed the AtHoc WAAN system with desktop software to meet this requirement 
at shore installations.
    b.  The AtHoc WAAN system is installed on all Navy Marine Corps Intranet 
(NMCI) and ONE-Net workstations and benefits the workforce by providing real-
time emergency alerts to the base population.  User registration of contact 
information is critical to the effectiveness of phone, e-mail, and text 
notifications.
    c.  REF A provides guidance, requirements, and assignment of 
responsibilities for WAAN implementation.

3.  System description:
    a.  The AtHoc WAAN system provides Computer Desktop
Notification System (CDNS) and Automated Telephonic Notification System 
(ATNS) notifications.  CDNS and ATNS are deployed to NMCI and ONE-Net users 
via the AtHoc self-service client application, which starts automatically on 
workstations at startup.
    b.  All users are automatically registered to receive CDNS computer 
desktop pop-up messages at their workstation.  CDNS is Common Access Card 
(CAC) enabled when users log into their NMCI or ONE-Net workstation.  
Individual registration is not required in order to receive CDNS alerts.
    c.  ATNS requires manual user registration of telephone numbers and e-
mail addresses through the AtHoc self-service client application to receive 
telephonic, e-mail, and text alerts.

4.  All shore commands, activities, and installations are expected to:
    a.  Ensure all assigned personnel with NMCI or ONE-Net accounts register 
their duty phone and duty e-mail with the AtHoc self-service client 
application, and highly encourage voluntary registration of personal contact 
information.
    b.  Educate all concerned on the purpose of the AtHoc WAAN system, its 
value to mission assurance, and the benefit to individuals who work or live 
on Navy facilities.
    c.  Incorporate the AtHoc self-service client registration procedure 
detailed in paragraph 5 of this message into standing installation and tenant 
activity welcome aboard, indoctrination, and check-in and out processes.
    d.  Apply command and supervisor leadership and influence down to the 
deck plate level to supervise and monitor AtHoc WAAN registration.

5.  AtHoc self-service client registration procedure.  NMCI and ONE-Net users 
shall register contact information via the AtHoc self-service client using 
the following directions:
    a.  Right-click on the AtHoc self-service client ('Purple Globe') icon in 
the users system tray located at the bottom right corner of the computer 
screen.
    b.  Select "Access self-service" from the pop up menu.
    c.  When the AtHoc self-service client opens, select the "My
    info" tab and update your last name, first name, and display name and 
save.
    d.  Select the "Devices" tab and register your duty phone and duty e-mail 
and save.  Voluntary registration of personal contact information is highly 
encouraged.
    e.  This completes the registration process.

6.  Please contact the Navy 311 Help Desk at 866-742-5550 (OCONUS:  809-463 
3376, then 1-866-742-5550) for assistance with technical issues using the 
AtHoc self-service client.

7.  Point of contact is Mr. Owen McIntyre, CNIC N37 at 202-433-4728 or 
e-mail:  owen.mcintyre(at)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral J. G. Foggo, Director, Navy Staff

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
