UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 211243Z NOV 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 282/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-20-1 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV//
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/14SEP18//
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62D, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot 
School (USNTPS) selection board on 12 December 2018.
This board will select highly qualified Naval Aviators and Naval Flight 
Officers (NFO) for USNTPS.  Test Pilot School (TPS) graduates have 
significant and long-lasting influence on platforms and systems and thus 
directly impact the future warfighting capability of their fleet community.  
Request command and fleet community assistance to identify candidates with 
strong operational performance and ideally, strong academic backgrounds in 
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics fields of study.

2.  For board eligibility consideration, a command endorsed application in 
line with the requirements of reference (a), must be received by MyNavy 
Career Center (MNCC) no later than 3 December 2018.  Additional documentation 
(including Wing/CAG endorsements, letters of recommendation, FITREPs, etc.) 
will be accepted until 7 December 2018, but must be submitted by the 
applicant, as a letter to the board, in line with subparagraph 3a below.  The 
command endorsement shall address whether the applicant, if selected, will be 
available to report for initial training by the following dates:
    11 March 2019 for Fixed Wing pilots
    20 May 2019 for Rotary Wing pilots
    17 June 2019 for NFOs
Endorsements with availability dates after these respective dates may be 
removed for consideration and not reviewed by the board.
Inability of the applicant to meet the above dates may be mitigated by 
conducting initial training in a temporary additional duty (TAD) status at 
the expense of the endorsing command.  If this is required, it must be 
explicitly stated in the command endorsement that the endorsing command will 
provide TAD funds until the applicant can officially detach.  Due to TPS 
Board FY-20-1 timing, endorsing commands detailed discussion of applicants’ 
performance is highly encouraged especially in cases where applicant will not 
yet have a January 2019 Fitness Report to submit.  The e-mail address(es), 
phone number(s), college transcripts, and post-TPS test squadron assignment 
preferences of the applicant must be included with the application.  Contact 
information of the commanding officer must be included to expedite 
notification, if selected.

3.  Eligibility:
    a.  Designated Naval Aviators and NFOs through the grade of lieutenant 
commander who are qualified for flight duties and have not been terminated 
from flying status are eligible for selection.
    b.  The preferred Unrestricted Line (URL, 13x0) aviators are junior 
officers (O2 or O3) with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the 
selected TPS program and a 36-month follow-on test tour prior to their 
expected department head tour.  If there are not enough qualified junior 
officers to meet requirements, lieutenant commanders with exceptional records 
may be selected, provided they can meet follow-on test tour requirements and 
applicable career milestones.
    c.  Aerospace Engineering Duty Officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of lieutenant commander may be selected if they are able to serve a 36-month 
follow-on test tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing to meet a 
minimum test tour of 24 months may have their application removed from 
consideration.
    e.  Applicants may only apply for the fixed wing, rotary wing, or 
airborne systems curriculums as test pilots and test NFOs.  The flight test 
engineer syllabus is for AIR 5.1 civilian personnel and not available for 
naval officers.

4.  Application package submissions:
    a.  The preferred method of application submission is electronic.  E-mail 
encrypted Portable Document Format submissions to cscselboard(at)navy.mil and 
carbon copy brandy.theisen.ctr(at)navy.mil and kyle.bockey(at)navy.mil.  If 
you are sending your board package from a non-NMCI network (bumed.mil, 
usmc.mil, etc.), please visit https://dod411.gds.disa.mil to download the 
required mailbox certificate.  To download the cert (please note, you must be 
using Microsoft Outlook with a Common Access Card reader, including 
activclient software and have internet explorer or Netscape 7), go to 
https://dod411.gds.disa.mil, type cscselboard@navy.mil in the e-mail address 
field, then click search.  Click the CSC link under last name.  Click on the 
link download certificate(s) as vcard.  Click software certificate for 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  Click the open button for the file download popup.  
The certificate will then open.  Click save and close.  The certificate is 
then saved to the profile and can be used to send your encrypted e-mail.  If 
unable to send encrypted, please contact brandy.theisen.ctr(at)navy.mil for 
assistance.
    b.  If unable to send electronically, applications may be sent via U.S. 
Postal Service to the following address:

        MyNavy Career Center
        FY-20-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220)
        5720 Integrity Drive
        Millington, TN 38055
    c.  Applications sent via FEDEX/UPS/DHL should use the following
address:
        MyNavy Career Center
        FY-20-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220)
        5640 Ticonderoga Loop, BLDG 768, RM E302
        Millington, TN 38055-6300

5.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by selecting the customer service link at 
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or by calling the 
MNCC at 833-330-MNCC or 901-874-MNCC/DSN 882-5672.

6.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information at the TPS Board website at
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/administrative/testpilot/Pages/default.aspx

7.  Points of contact are CDR Kyle Bockey, PERS-434B, via e-mail at 
kyle.bockey(at)navy.mil or Ms. Brandy Theisen, PERS-434B1, via e- mail at 
brandy.theisen.ctr(at)navy.mil.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

