UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 302159Z SEP 15

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 232/15

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/SEP//

SUBJ/HUSBANDING SERVICE PROVIDER PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS AND CHANGES//

RMKS/1.  The U.S. Navy has a long history of contracting husbanding support 
provider (HSP) companies to provide on-site logistics support to ships in 
non-U.S. Navy ports domestically and overseas.  These partnerships enable our 
enduring forward presence by offering services and materials that satisfy 
Navy requirements.  The recent events regarding port visits and husbanding 
support have highlighted the need to ensure there are no gaps or 
vulnerabilities within the Navy?s HSP process and the need to build a layered 
defense to prevent any future fraud, waste, and abuse.

2.  Task Force Navy Operational Commanders' Support (TF NOCS) was established 
and charged with interim implementation oversight and execution of Navy-wide 
HSP process improvement.  TF NOCS will serve as the unifying element in a 
collaborative effort that spans Fleet Commanders, Naval Supply Systems 
Command (NAVSUP), and Navy Education and Training Command (NETC).  This 
effort will result in enduring controls and program governance through 
process improvements, fiscal accountability, and Navy HSP services training.

3.  The new HSP Off-Ship Bill Pay process has been tested over the past 
several months with great success and will officially be implemented Navy-
wide on 1 October 2015.  Any ship scheduled for a port visit that commences 
on or after that date must use the off-ship bill pay process.  Under the 
direction and guidance of the Fleet Commanders, HSP service payments will 
transition off-ship effective 1 October 2015.  Disbursing Officers are no 
longer authorized to dispense payments for HSP services.  For the full 
rollout of this program to succeed, it is imperative all stakeholders have 
regular communication and diligent oversight until the process becomes 
routine.

4.  Commanders and Commanding Officers are responsible for the execution of 
port visits.  Stewardship and accountability of taxpayers? dollars is a 
"Total Force" responsibility, across all Navy, especially for Fleet 
Commanders and Ships' Commanding Officers and those under their command.  As 
we implement the new HSP process, vigilance should be exercised at every 
level so that leadership is alerted to any evidence of fraud, waste, and 
abuse.  Improprieties can only be corrected through your deliberate efforts.

5.  Released by R. R. Braun, Vice Admiral, U.S. Navy.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
