UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 101156Z MAY 19
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 0105/19

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N8/MAY//

SUBJ/MASTER OF SYSTEMS ANALYSIS DISTANCE LEARNING DEGREE PROGRAM ENROLLMENT 
FOR SEPTEMBER 2019//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1520.23C/20150107//
AMPN/NAVY GRADUATE EDUCATION POLICY//
POC/MSADEGPROG(AT)NPS.EDU//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the September 
2019 cohort of the distance learning Master of Systems Analysis (MSA) degree 
program (curriculum 363).  The program is targeted to Navy unrestricted line 
officers who might not otherwise be able to attend Naval Postgraduate School 
(NPS) resident programs.  It is also open to other uniformed officers and 
federal civilians.  Defense contractor civilians can attend on a space -
available basis. This program is focused on the practice of the Operations 
Research/Systems Analysis profession and prepares students to apply critical 
thinking and analytical skills to support key decisions in both operational 
and staff assignments. Coursework is focused on data analysis, modeling and 
simulation, optimization, risk-benefit analysis, and cost analysis as they 
apply to real-world military situations and cases. Navy officer graduates 
receive a 3210P subspecialty code, Operations Research Analysis, and are 
eligible to be detailed to 3211-coded Operations Analysis billets.
MSA is also a designated degree program eligible for assignment to OPNAV 
6511P-coded Requirements billets.

2.  Master of Systems Analysis degree program.  The MSA program (curriculum 
363) is a 24-month part-time program delivered using a mix of distance 
learning methods.  Students take two courses per quarter for eight 
consecutive quarters.  One course each quarter requires weekly, 3-hour 
sessions using video tele-education or web -based conferencing.  The other 
course each quarter is delivered asynchronously using web-based (online) 
instruction.  Web-based courses are paced week-to-week but students have the 
flexibility to do coursework at times of their choosing during a particular 
week.
The programs can be delivered virtually anywhere to any qualified applicant.

3.  Certificate program.  An online four-course subset of the MSA degree 
program may be taken as a stand-alone Systems Analysis (SA) Certificate 
(curriculum 281).  A student who completes the SA Certificate may apply for 
enrollment in the MSA degree program and receive one-for-one course credit 
towards the MSA degree requirements. Navy officer graduates of the 
certificate program receive a 3210L subspecialty code.

4.  Program starts.  New MSA and SA Certificate cohorts are scheduled to 
begin each fall and spring quarter.  For fall quarter academic year 2020 
(AY20), classes begin the week of 30 September 2019.

5.  Active duty Navy officers.  Per reference (a), officers participating in 
this program must agree to remain on active duty for a period of three years 
following completion of the degree program (or one year following completion 
of the Certificate program).  This obligation is discharged concurrently with 
any other service obligation already incurred.  This agreement does not 
obligate the Navy to retain the officer on active duty. NPS is mission-funded 
to provide tuition free graduate education to active duty Navy and Marine 
Corps officers.

6.  Sponsor-reimbursed tuition.  Seats not filled by active duty Navy and 
Marine Corps officers will be made available for open enrollment to other 
uniformed officers, Department of the Navy and other federal government 
civilians, and defense contractor civilians under tuition sponsorship by 
their organization or agency.  The open enrollment tuition for other-service 
military, government civilians, and defense contractors is $2,250 per course. 
Students are required to purchase their own textbooks.  NPS is required to 
have a support agreement (DON form 7600A or DD1144) in place with each 
government funding sponsor prior to acceptance of funding documents.

7.  Officers interested in the MSA degree program or SA Certificate can visit 
the NPS MSA or SA Cert web pages for detailed eligibility and application 
process information.  Deadline for applications for the April 2019 start 
(AY19 quarter 3) is 5 July 2019. MSA webpage:
https://my.nps.edu/web/dl/degprogs_msa. SA Cert webpage: https 
://my.nps.edu/web/dl/cert_sa.

8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 2019, 
whichever occurs first.

9. Released by direction NEIL W. T. HOGG, SES, ASSISTANT DEPUTY CHIEF OF 
NAVAL OPERATIONS, N8B.// UNCLASSIFIED//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

