UNCLASSIFIED/
ROUTINE
R 131857Z FEB 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 037/15

SUBJ/DOMESTIC VIOLENCE INCIDENT COUNT-CONSEQUENT COMMAND ACTIONS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//
REF/A/DOC/OSD/10APR14/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/25APR08//
NARR/REF A IS USD (P&R) MEMO, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE INCIDENT COUNT AND CONSEQUENT 
COMMAND ACTIONS.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1752.2B, FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM 
(FAP).//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides implementation guidance regarding the new 
Department of Defense (DoD) requirement for commands to report Navy domestic 
violence incident count and consequent command action (DVIC-CCA).  Navy 
commands shall report command actions for reportable domestic violence 
incidents as outlined in this message.  Reference (a) directed each service 
to develop a plan to annually collect and submit the number of DVIC-CCAs for 
incidents that meet specifically defined criteria commencing with data 
collection in FY-15.  The first report will be collated and submitted to the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense Family Advocacy Program office (OSD FAP) 
no later than 31 March 2016.

2.  DVIC-CCA reporting criteria shall include:
    a.  DVIC reporting criteria:  A reportable incident is defined as a 
domestic violence incident in which the offender is an active-duty service 
member (including reserve personnel in an active-duty status) which meets one 
or more of the following criteria for:
        (1) Grievous bodily harm (as defined in Article 128 of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)):  Grievous bodily harm means serious bodily 
injury.  It does not include minor injuries, such as a black eye or a bloody 
nose, but does include fractured or dislocated bones, deep cuts, torn members 
of the body, serious damage to internal organs, and other serious bodily 
harm.
        (2) Severity Level 3 (Severe Physical):  Major physical injury 
requiring inpatient medical treatment or causing temporary or permanent 
disability or disfigurement.  Severity Level 3 includes moderate or
severe emotional effects requiring long-term mental health treatment. This 
may require placement in an alternative environment to protect the physical 
safety or other welfare of the victim.
        (3) Severity Level 2 (Moderate Physical):  Minor or moderate physical 
injury requiring one or more outpatient visits for treatment. Minor or 
moderate emotional effects requiring short-term mental health treatment may 
be indicated.
        (4) Sexual abuse of a spouse or intimate partner:  Acts of domestic 
abuse or domestic violence to coerce the spouse or intimate partner to engage 
in any sexual activity.  It includes rape/intercourse, sodomy, and coercing 
the spouse to participate in sexual activity with another person, as in 
pornography or prostitution.  (Note:  Though not specifically listed, this 
definition includes any sexual assault of and any aggravated or abusive 
sexual contact with a spouse or intimate partner, as defined in reference 
(b)).
    b.  CCA reporting criteria:
        (1) Administrative action:  The following are examples of 
administrative actions; the list is not all inclusive:  formal counseling, 
special evaluation or fitness report, page 13 entry, administrative 
separation processing, administrative board, etc.  The specific 
administrative action taken shall be documented.  A CCA is only 
*administrative action* when no other CCA applies.  For example, if non-
judicial punishment (NJP) proceedings occur or court-martial charges are 
preferred, then NJP or court-martial is the appropriate CCA.  If 
administrative actions are taken in addition to NJP proceedings or court-
martial preferral, the administrative actions shall be reported with the 
results of the NJP or court-martial.
        (2) NJP:  Includes only those disciplinary proceedings where UCMJ 
articles regarding the DVI are held, whether punishment is imposed or not.  
The results of the proceedings, including punishment awarded if applicable, 
shall be reported along with any additional administrative action.
        (3) Courts-Martial:  Includes only those cases where UCMJ articles 
regarding the DVI are preferred.  The results of the court-martial, including 
punishment awarded if applicable, shall be reported along with any additional 
administrative action.
        (4) Other:  Includes subjects/incidents that could not be prosecuted 
or disposed of at NJP for the following reasons:  Lack of jurisdiction 
(includes civilian trial/conviction); the allegation was unfounded by the 
command, meaning it was false or did not meet the elements/criteria of a 
domestic violence offense/incident; statute of limitations expired; the 
subject was separated for reasons other than direct result of the DVI 
(includes discharge, transfer to Fleet Reserve, and retirement), died or 
deserted; evidence was insufficient either to prefer or refer charges at any 
forum to include NJP; or the victim declined or refused to cooperate with the 
investigation or prosecution. The specific action under other category shall 
be documented.

3.  Commander Navy Installations Command (CNIC) responsibilities.  CNIC 
shall:
    a.  Direct the installation Family Advocacy Clinical Case Staff meeting 
to review all FY-15 DVIs and assign a severity level using Department of 
Defense Maltreatment Severity Codes.  Incidents that meet DVIC-CCA reporting 
criteria above shall be reported to the parent command of the service member 
and recorded in the Navy Central Registry.
    b.  Forward FY-15 Navy Central Registry reportable incident data to OPNAV 
N170 quarterly (15 January, 15 April, 15 July, 15 October) and final report 
no later than 10 November 2015.  At minimum, data shall include:
         (1) Command Name
         (2) Command Primary UIC
         (3) Incident Report Date
         (4) Category of Abuse/Severity
         (5) Name of Service Member Offender

4.  Echelon II responsibilities.  Echelon II commanders are authorized to 
issue additional reporting guidance to their subordinate commands. When 
Echelon II commanders issue additional CCA reporting guidance, commanders 
shall comply with Echelon II guidance.  Echelon II commanders shall be 
responsible for ensuring all CCA reports received are forwarded to OPNAV N170 
using the procedures below.

5.  Commander responsibilities.  In the absence of additional reporting 
guidance from Echelon II, commanders shall:
    a.  Report completed command actions for incidents occurring on or after 
1 October 2014 via encrypted e-mail to DVIC_CCA(at)navy.mil no later than 5 
days after the command action is complete or within 30 days of receipt of 
this message for already completed actions.  Command actions are complete per 
paragraphs 2.b.(1) through 2.b.(4).  The report shall include:
         (1) Command Name
         (2) Command Primary UIC
         (3) Incident Report Date
         (4) Category of Abuse/Severity
         (5) Name of Service Member Offender
         (6) Consequent Command Action
         (7) Command Point of Contact Information
    b.  After 30 September 2015, commanders shall provide a status report on 
all pending FY-15 incidents no later than 10 November 2015.

6.  OPNAV N17 responsibilities.
    a.  OPNAV N17 will coordinate with Echelon II point of contacts to 
recover any delinquent reports.
    b.  OPNAV N17 shall prepare and submit the FY-15 DVIC-CCA report to 
Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) no later than 
10 February 2016.  Subsequent fiscal year DVIC-CCA inputs and reports will be 
made on a timeline similar to that identified for FY-15.

7.  Point of contact is Mrs. Sonia Smith, OPNAV FAP Manager, at (901) 874-
4355 or via e-mail at sonia.smith(at)navy.mil. 

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
