RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1580031-UUUU--RUCRNAD
ZNR UUUUU
R 070031Z JUN 13 PSN 955893K39
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS//N01500//
NAVADMIN 158/13
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO/WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN// 

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE STAND-DOWN// 

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//051536ZJUN13// 

AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 156/13, SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) 
STAND-DOWN.
RMKS/1.  Per ref (a), this message provides details for the Sexual Assault 
Prevention Response (SAPR) Stand-down (SD), which includes Commander 
Engagement All Hands training; active review of the credentials and 
qualifications and professional ethics training for recruiters, Sexual Assault 
Response Coordinators (SARCs) and SAPR Victim Advocates (VA) (including 
collateral duty unit SAPR-VAs); and focused refresher training for 
institutional instructors and SAPR first responders.

2.  Background.  The intent of this SD is to ensure service members and 
civilian personnel clearly understand they are accountable for fostering a 
climate where sexist behaviors, sexual harassment and sexual assault are not 
tolerated, condoned or ignored; where dignity, trust and respect are core 
values we live by and define how we treat one another; where victims' reports 
are treated with the utmost seriousness, their privacy is protected and they 
are treated with sensitivity; where bystanders are motivated to intervene 
because offensive or criminal conduct is neither tolerated nor condoned; and 
where offenders know they will be held appropriately accountable by an 
effective system of justice.  

3.  Execution.  Navy's SAPR-SD Commander Engagement All Hands training will be 
comprised of a focused facilitated engagement led by the Command Triad 
(commanding officer/executive officer/command master chief).  Each session 
will begin with video presentations by the Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) and 
Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) and conclude with a video by the Master Chief 
Petty Officer of the Navy (MCPON).  A group of 25-30 training participants is 
ideal for maximum participation in the facilitated discussions.  The group 
size is recommended not to exceed 50 participants to meet training quality 
intent.  Large commands may consider using post-command officers and command 
qualified master and senior chiefs/leading chief petty officers as additional 
facilitators to meet group size for training intent.
    a.  Success of the Commander Engagement All Hands training rests entirely 
on the command's commitment to delivering quality, professional training that 
engages all levels of leadership - military and civilian, junior and senior - 
in the discussion about sexual assault.  The estimated length of this training 
is 120 minutes.  However, training may continue beyond the allotted time.
    b.  Civilian employees are invited, and encouraged to participate in the 
Commander Engagement All Hands training alongside their military co-workers.  
Sailors assigned to other services are also encouraged to complete Navy SAPR-
SD Commander Engagement All Hands training, but may document SAPR-SD 
completion after attending host service SAPR-SD training.  Leaders and 
stakeholders such as the local SARC, SAPR-VA, Judge Advocate General (JAG), 
and chaplain are encouraged to participate to the maximum extent possible.
    c.  Additional Mandatory Activities.  Key components of the Navy's SAPR-
SD, in addition to the Commander Engagement All Hands training, include 
mandatory activities targeted at organizations and personnel in direct and 
often first contact with our new Sailors as well as first responders to 
victims of sexual assault.  Due to the critical nature of these key positions, 
additional review of credentials and refresher training is warranted and 
required.  
Further detail on the additional mandatory activities is contained in 
paragraph 5 below; the activities include:
        (1) Review of credentials and qualifications of SARCs and SAPR-VAs.
        (2) Professional ethics and standards-of-conduct training for 
recruiters, SARCs and SAPR-VAs.
        (3) Review of credentials and qualifications of training center and 
institutional instructors, Recruit Training Command (RTC) recruit division 
commanders, Naval Criminal Investigative Service
(NCIS) investigators, and sexual assault nurse examiners.
        (4) SAPR refresher training for all training center and institutional 
instructors and those charged with initial accession training pipelines, 
health care providers, Fleet and Family Support Center counselors, chaplains, 
JAG personnel, and NCIS investigators.

4.  Training Elements.  The SAPR-SD Commander Engagement All Hands training is 
composed of two primary elements:  video presentation and facilitated 
discussion.  The SAPR-SD Commanders All Hands Engagement facilitators guide 
and videos are available for download at http://www.sapr.navy.mil under the 
SAPR-SD section. 
    a.  The video includes a SECNAV and CNO introduction message which must be 
played at the beginning of each SD session.  The video is designed to set up 
and establish the tone for the Command Triad facilitated discussion that 
follows.  The facilitated discussion concludes with a message from the MCPON 
and must be played prior to the end of the session.  In the event any command 
cannot access the videos, transcripts of the videos are included in the 
facilitator guide and will be read verbatim by the Command Triad during the 
training. 
    b.  The facilitators guide is not designed to be a rigid script; rather, 
it is designed to equip Command Triads with thought-provoking questions about 
SAPR and engage commands in meaningful discussion.  
The guide is composed of facilitated questions that follow the introduction 
messages by SECNAV and CNO.  
5.  Additional Mandated Activities Details.  Further details on the additional 
mandated activities are listed below. 
    a.  Active review of credentials and qualifications of SARC and SAPR-VAs, 
and recruiters.
        (1) SARC and SAPR-VA Credentials and qualifications review.  All 
region commanders and commanding officers are required to complete an active 
review of credentials and qualifications of regional and installation SARCS 
and SAPR-VAs assigned to their command.  This includes volunteer SAPR-VAs 
serving as unit SAPR-VAs.  
The review shall be completed prior to 1 July 2013.  A template letter with 
instructions for completion and submission of this review is located at 
http://www.cnic.navy.mil/content/dam/cnic/hq/pdfs/n91_fleet_and_
family_support_program/sexual_assault_prevention_and_response/
saprvalidationletter.pdf
        (2) Recruiter credentials and qualifications review.  
Commander, Navy Recruiting Command (CNRC) will rescreen all recruiters by:  
reviewing required SAPR-Leadership (SAPR-L)/SAPR-Fleet (SAPR-F)/SAPR Khaki 
(SAPR-K) training documentation, reviewing security clearance status to verify 
no documented adverse behavior, review Navy Standard Integrated Personnel 
System record for pre-service offenses and offenses conducted while on active 
duty, and review Alcohol Drug Management Information Tracking System for 
significant alcohol offenses.  Each recruiter will sign a Page 13 
acknowledging full disclosure of any offenses committed since entering the 
Navy, complete and thorough understanding of sexual assault, sexual 
harassment, and fraternization policies, covenant contract to adhere to the 
policies and report any known violations, and a commitment to dissuade, detect 
and deter.  The final certification for continued recruiting duty will be 
authorized by the Navy recruiting district commanding officer.
    b.  Targeted professional ethics and standards-of-conduct refresher 
training for recruiters, SARCs and SAPR-VAs, which emphasizes how violations 
impact mission readiness.  This training will be provided by Commander, Navy 
Installations Command (CNIC) for SARCs and SAPR-VAs and CNRC for recruiters.
    c.  Active review of credentials and qualifications of training center and 
institutional instructors (United States Naval Academy, Reserve Officer 
Training Corps, and Officer Candidate School), RTC recruit division 
commanders, NCIS investigators, sexual assault nurse examiners, and those 
qualified to conduct sexual assault forensic examinations.  Reviews of 
credentials and qualifications will be conducted by individual cognizant 
organizations. 
    d.  Targeted SAPR refresher training, utilizing our successful SAPR-L and 
SAPR-F training programs and other Department of the Navy SAPR Office 
resources, for all training center and institutional instructors, health care 
providers, Fleet and Family Support Center counselors, chaplains, JAG 
personnel, and NCIS investigators.  Commander, Naval Education Training 
Command and Commander, Naval Service Training Command will coordinate and 
provide training for training centers and institutional instructors.  Chief, 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery will coordinate and provide training for health 
care providers.  CNIC will coordinate and provide training for Fleet and 
Family Support Center counselors.  The Chief of Chaplains will coordinate and 
provide training for chaplains.  Office of the JAG will coordinate and provide 
training for JAG personnel.  NCIS will coordinate and provide training for 
their investigators.

6.  Training and reporting timeline.  SAPR-SD Commander Engagement All Hands 
training and reporting will be completed NLT than 1 July 2013.  Reserve 
component and deployed personnel will commence their SD commensurate with the 
active component with the intent to complete as much as possible by 1 July 
2013 and complete NLT 22 July 2013.  

7.  Training documentation.  All active, reserve, and civilian personnel 
training must document completion of SAPR-SD Commander Engagement All Hands 
training in the Fleet Training Management Planning System (FLTMPS).
    a.  FLTMPS access.  FLTMPS is part of the Navy Training Management and 
Planning System (NTMPS) suite of applications.  
Only command designated personnel possessing FLTMPS accounts with approved 
course completion access will be able to record SAPR-SD training completions 
by using the FLTMPS learning event completion form (LECF).
        (1) FLTMPS users who do not have access to the LECF will see a message 
in red font stating, "you are not authorized to view this page" when they 
click on the button labeled "LRNG EVENT COMPL FORM"
on the top menu of FLTMPS.  If necessary, command personnel may request FLTMPS 
access using the FLTMPS online application request system (OARS) at 
https://ntmpsweb.nwptf.nuwc.navy.mil/oars_net/default.aspx.  
Users must ensure the course completion reporting and authorizing officer 
sections of OARS are properly completed and the approving official's e-mail 
address entered.  Immediately upon submission by the applicant, a system 
generated  e-mail is sent to the approving official for review/approval.  Once 
the request is approved, it is automatically forwarded for processing to the 
NTMPS support office.  
Upon review and processing by the NTMPS support office, the applicant will 
receive electronic notification of their account status.
        (2) Senior commands may apply for course completion access to document 
training for their subordinate commands (unit identification codes (UICS)) by 
contacting the NTMPS support office toll-free in the U.S. at 1-866-438-2898, 
or commercial (850) 438-2898.  Customer service representatives are available 
weekdays from 0700-1800, EST, via email at ntmps.support(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  Detailed FLTMPS documentation instructions:
        (1) Login to FLTMPS at
https://ntmpsweb.nwptf.nuwc.navy.mil/fltmps/.
        (2) Click on login with CAC card button.
        (3) On the top menu, select the LRNG EVENT COMPL form button (located 
between the ADMIN and COURSES buttons).
        (4) Select GMT and OTHER TRAINING REPORT GROUP.
        (5) Select SEARCH BY COURSE.
        (6) Enter CIN "SAPR-SD" then select filter.
        (7) Select course "SAPR-SD".
        (8) If you have access to enter completions for more than one 
activity, then select the desired activity from the activity selection box.  
Click the run report button.  This will load the SAPR-SD LECF form.  If you 
only have access for one command, the selection box will not appear and you 
will be directed to the SAPR-SD LECF entry form.
        (9) The LECF form will automatically populate with all command 
personnel including Navy contractors whom are not required to attend SAPR-SD 
training.  Training department personnel with LECF access can determine which 
personnel have completed training via the "VIEW COURSE COMPLETIONS" hyperlink 
in the LECF module; other command personnel can utilize the "ONBOARD COURSE 
GRADUATES BY UIC" report.
        (10) Commands may view and download personnel rosters using either 
method listed in paragraph 7(b.)(9) to assist in recording and validating 
training completions.
        (11) Command Triads are responsible for ensuring training 
officers/command representatives enter SAPR-SD training completions in a 
timely manner.

8.  Questions about the SAPR-SD can be directed to 
navysaprstanddown(at)navy.mil or (703) 604-0018/DSN 664.    

9.  Release by Vice Admiral S. R. Van Buskirk, N1.//

BT
#5957
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

