RTTUZYUW RUEWMCS0000 1681637-UUUU--RUCRNAD.
ZNR UUUUU
R 171637Z JUN 13
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 159/13

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/JUN//

SUBJ/2012 ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS ANNOUNCEMENT// 

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/R 071502Z JAN 13// 

AMPN/REF A IS ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARD CALL FOR 2012 NOMINATIONS MESSAGE.// 

POC/CDR BRUCE MILLER/N413M/ARLINGTON, VA/TEL: (703) 695-4861/EMAIL: 
BRUCE.M.MILLER1(AT)NAVY.MIL// 

RMKS/1.  IRT REF A, a Flag/SES panel reviewed candidate nominations and selected the 2012 Admiral 
Stan Arthur Award winners.  This award recognizes military and civilian logisticians who epitomize 
excellence in logistics planning and execution.  I am pleased to announce the 2012 Admiral Stan Arthur 
Award winners:
    A.  The Military Logistician of the Year is CDR William J. May assigned to Defense Logistics Agency, 
Disposition Services-Afghanistan.  As Officer-in-Charge Disposition Services - Afghanistan, CDR May led 
four, 20-acre fixed locations, eight hub-based disposal operation sites, and 16 expeditionary disposal 
remediation teams in every region of Afghanistan.  His sites removed over 76M pounds of excess or 
battle damaged materials, processed over 120,000 items requiring demilitarization, and reutilized 3,500 
line items valued over $42.5M.  Tapped by U.S. Forces - Afghanistan and 1st Theater Support Command, 
CDR May developed and executed an excess container concept saving over $25.8M in shipping expenses 
and projected savings of $441M over the project's life cycle.
    B.  The Civilian Logistician of the Year is Mr. Gregory D. Butler assigned to Naval Supply Systems 
Command, Global Logistics Support.  Mr. Butler's demand for process improvement was the catalyst for 
his vision to establish an international team of world class logisticians and computer scientists focused 
on transforming transportation planning as we know it.  Under the Naval Logistics Integration (NLI) 
program, Mr. Butler conceived and developed the web-based Transportation Exploitation Tool (TET) 
aligned to the Navy's Lifts of Opportunity Program (LOOP).  Along with his global partners, Mr. Butler 
developed new concepts that saved the Navy more than $26M in transportation costs.  In 2012, through 
a strategic partnership with the Office of Naval Research (ONR), Mr. Butler was awarded $18.7M in 
science and technology funding to expand the development of TET.  When fully implemented, TET will 
deliver the first web-based, menu-driven tool that promotes the cost-wise selection of appropriate 
transportation modes to meet customer movement requirements.  
    C.  The Acquisition Logistics Team of the Year is Navy's Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Business 
Process Financial Information Team from Program Executive Office Enterprise Information Systems.  The 
Navy's ERP Business Process Financial Information Team standardized Navy business processes resulting 
in major contributions to enterprise financial audit readiness.  The team led a Service-wide effort to 
deliver 219 sizeable work products supporting a to-the-penny reconciliation.  This was made possible 
through innovative development and application of a quantitative drill-down methodology to tie 
transactions from general ledger trial balance accounts down to the detailed level.  This enabled a Navy 
first-ever unqualified opinion on the E-2D Hawkeye Program financial reports.  As the first Navy financial 
system to undergo a Federal Information System Controls Audit Manual (FISCAM) review in support of 
Financial Improvement Audit Readiness, the team supported a 73 percent FISCAM compliance level.  
This is a seven-fold increase over similar Department of Defense (DoD) systems.
    D.  The Operational Logistics Team of the Year is the Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) V-22 
Logistics Team for its exceptional Fleet focus, process innovation, and attainment of measurable results.  
Through this team's extraordinary vision and inspirational leadership, the V-22 program developed and 
implemented new products such as a highly detailed cost model and a cost per flight hour (CPFH) 
metrics tracker that, when coupled with the use of transformational logistics processes such as the 
critical item logistics review, achieved precision decision-making, requirements review, and cost 
alignment.  By leveraging maintenance and supply solutions that align with the 2012 CNO Guidance, this 
team has been instrumental in advancing the V-22 supportability and the NAVAIR's logistics processes.  
The 2012 MV-22 mission capable rate increased eight percent over 2011, while the 2012 MV-22 CPFH 
decreased six percent compared to the 2011 rate.
    E.  The Joint Logistics Team of the Year is Military Sealift Command's (MSC's) Logistics Team.  The MSC 
Logistics Team was pivotal in converting USS PONCE, a decommissioning 40-year old AUSTIN class 
amphibious transport dock ship, into a forward-deployed afloat staging base.  The aggressive and 
dedicated efforts of the team brought USS PONCE expanded capabilities, including mother ship 
capability for stock point operations with total asset visibility and distance support business solutions.  
By completely rehabilitating ordnance spaces and systems, the team delivered cutting-edge ordnance 
storage, handling and safety equipment to accommodate emerging weapons technology, including the 
SEAFOX mine neutralization system.  The team also established a comprehensive integrated logistics 
support system to re-baseline installed and new equipment and parts sparing efforts and avoided retail 
outfitting costs in excess of $2.5M. 

2.  Award levels are $5,000 each for the Military and the Civilian Logistician of the Year and $10,000 for 
each team award.  The award certificates and letters will be issued to the parent commands for 
distribution.

3.  A virtual award ceremony, via video teleconference, with ADM Arthur (ret), VADM Cullom, and the 
winning member's command is scheduled for 11 July 2013.  CDR Miller will contact winning commands 
to make arrangements for the ceremony.

4.  My heartiest congratulations to the winners.  Your superlative achievements resulted in substantial 
and quantifiable benefits to the United States Navy and enhanced the logistics profession.  BRAVO 
ZULU!

5.  Released by VADM P. H. Cullom, OPNAV N4.//
BT
#0000
NNNN

