UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 301606Z JAN 17
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

NAVADMIN 018/17

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR FULL SPEED AHEAD TRAINING//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/27JUN13//
AMPN/REF A IS SECNAVINST 5300.40, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 21ST CENTURY SAILOR 
AND MARINE INITIATIVE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for Full Speed Ahead (FSA) training 
in line with reference (a) and outlines the requirements for completion and 
documentation.  The FSA Task Force (TF) will facilitate delivery of targeted 
FSA training to all active and reserve Navy personnel.

2.  Background.  FSA continues our efforts to combat destructive behaviors 
across the fleet while reinforcing the core attributes of the Navy and 
signature behaviors as the foundation of a resilient and professional force.  
Like earlier efforts in FY-15/FY-16, FSA blends scenario-based videos with 
facilitator-led discussions to focus on all Sailors, with a unique emphasis 
on the critical role of mid-level leaders in addressing and preventing 
destructive behaviors and their associated effects on individuals, work 
centers (micro- climates), and commands.

3.  Training Approach.  FSA will consist of small group (normally about 30 
participants per session) training sessions led by qualified Command 
Facilitators (CF).  Unlike FY-15/FY-16 training, which focused on peer-led 
sessions, FSA groups should include participants of all paygrades to maximize 
cross-rank discussion of issues that impact all levels of the command, to 
strengthen the resolve of each other to act consistently with our core 
values, and foster an environment that considers new ideas with an open mind 
to find the best solutions.

4.  CF Training and Selection.  Training will be delivered to all active and 
reserve Navy personnel by a certified CF selected by their individual 
commands.  Designated CF personnel will be certified on FSA facilitation 
techniques by Master Mobile Training Teams (MMTT) from the Naval Education 
and Training Command (NETC) FSA TF and subsequently deliver the interactive 
video and facilitated face-to-face (F2F) sessions in small, mixed-paygrade 
groups within their command.  NETC MMTT will commence CF training fleet-wide 
in February 2017.
    a.  CF Selection Criteria.  Commands should designate CFs at the E6-E8 
paygrade to reflect the essential sphere of influence these personnel exhibit 
up and down the chain of command.  Commanding officers may deviate from this 
requirement if command demographics do not permit.  The success of FSA 
training depends on the selection of exemplary and dynamic CFs who have the 
ability to actively engage Sailors while delivering the FSA course materials.
    b.  CF Certification.  All CF personnel must be certified on the FSA 
curriculum in FY-17.  There is no grandfathering of CF from prior year 
training efforts in FY-15/FY-16.
    c.  CF Documentation.  Completion of CF certification training will be 
documented by the FSA TF in the Fleet Training Management Planning System 
(FLTMPS).  Qualified CFs will receive credit for the course NETC-FSA-CF-CERT 
in their individual training records in FLTMPS within 1-2 weeks of completion 
of their certification.

5.  FSA Command-Level Delivery.  FSA will be delivered as small group, F2F 
discussions led by a MMTT-certified CF.  FSA training sessions should 
normally include approximately 30 personnel in order to maximize the 
advantage of the small group experience.
    a.  Mixed Paygrade Training.  Mixed paygrade training is a critical 
element of FSA designed to encourage open, frank dialogue up and down the 
chain of command, and to broaden the perspective of Sailors at all levels.  
Commands should include a diverse mix of ranks in each FSA session conducted.  
Additionally, based on feedback provided by fleet Sailors during the 
development of this training, the small groups should, where possible, be 
composed of individuals from many different parts of the command (e.g. 
personnel from different divisions, departments, etc.) to maximize 
participation.
    b.  Co-Facilitation.  Every command FSA session will be facilitated by 
two CF personnel.  Co-facilitation of FSA sessions is not waiverable.
    c.  Combined Sessions.  At commanding officer discretion, commands with 
few Navy personnel or those with deployed/remote personnel may complete the 
FSA training by combining sessions with other commands in the local area.
    d.  Training Materials.  FSA training materials (videos, Facilitator 
Guide, and supporting material) are available for download at the FSA 
milsuite site located at: https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/navy-fsa.  
Commands may also request training materials on digital video device by 
contacting the FSA TF at netc_fsa_tf(at)navy.mil or via the points of contact 
(POC) below.

6.  Documentation.  Commands will document completion of FSA training using 
FLTMPS.  Use the report group:  FULL SPEED AHEAD and course title:  NETC-FSA 
Full Speed Ahead Unit Level Training to record training via the FLTMPS 
Learning Event Completion Form.

7.  Completion Deadline.  FSA training will be completed no later than 31 
December 2017.  FSA is a one-time requirement for 2017 only and will not be 
repeated in future years.

8.  Supporting Resources.  Commands may access Navy FSA training information 
via the Naval Personnel Command 21st Century Sailor webpage at:  
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/support/21st_century_sailor/pages/default.aspx.  The FSA webpage will 
contain up-to-date policy information, CF training registration instructions, 
and frequently asked questions.

9.  Action Required.
    a.  All commands shall
        (1) Ensure at least two CFs at the E6E8 paygrade are identified for 
each command and attend CF certification led by NETC MMTT.  Locate and 
register for CF certification training online at
https://esams.cnic.navy.mil/esams_gen_2/loginesams.aspx.
        (2) Deliver FSA training to their commands in CF-led small group 
sessions using approved training products no later than 31 December 2017.
        (3) Document FSA completion as directed in paragraph 6 of this 
NAVADMIN for all personnel.
    b.  Joint commands shall:  Ensure the Navy element commander executes FSA 
training for all assigned Navy personnel as directed in this NAVADMIN.

10.  General Business Rules for Executing FSA Training.
    a.  All CFs must be certified via FSA TF MMTT or approved distance 
learning course.  A distance learning course will not be available until 
approximately June 2017.  Only MMTT personnel trained by the FSA TF will 
conduct CF certification.  Individual commands are not authorized to certify 
their own CF.
    b.  FSA training is required for uniformed Navy personnel. Civilians or 
other service personnel assigned at Navy commands are encouraged to attend in 
accordance with their mission requirements and command direction.
    c.  FSA training material will not be modified by subordinate commands 
and may only be delivered by certified CFs.

11.  Command Relationships.  FSA TF is the supported operational commander.  
All other Navy commands are designated as supporting commands.

12.  Assessment.  This is not one and done training.  Behavior change takes 
practice.  All commands are encouraged to take ownership of this training by 
assessing the learning and understanding of the topics discussed by your 
Sailors and by making this training a part of your day-to-day conversations.  
The measure of success of this training will be the extent to which you 
engage with your Sailors up and down the chain of command, and your Sailors 
continue the conversation amongst their peers about making good decisions and 
treating everyone with dignity and respect.  We own this and can get it 
right.

13.  FSA TF POC.  CDR Heath Marcus, FSA TF Chief of Staff, at (757)492-
5640/DSN 492 or email at heath.marcus(at)navy.mil and LCDR Barry Shumate, FSA 
TF Deputy Chief of Staff at (757)492-5629/DSN 492 or email at 
barry.shumate(at)navy.mil.

14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

15.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
