UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 281726Z APR 15
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 101/15

SUBJ/RENEWAL AND MODIFICATION OF EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL WARFARE OFFICER 
CRITICAL SKILLS RETENTION BONUS PROGRAM//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR//
REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/281257ZOCT11/
REF/B/DOC/USC/TITLE 37 U.S.C./3JAN12/
REF/C/DOC/DOD/31MAY13//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 322/11, EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL CRITICAL SKILLS 
RETENTION BONUS PROGRAM.  REF B IS TITLE 37 UNITED STATES CODE, SPECIAL PAY:  
RETENTION INCENTIVES FOR MEMBERS QUALIFIED IN CRITICAL MILITARY SKILLS OR 
ASSIGNED TO HIGH PRIORITY UNITS.  REF C IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 
1341.13, POST-9/11 GI BILL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the redesignation/renewal and modification 
of the Navy explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) officer warfare critical skills 
retention bonus (CSRB) for qualified EOD warfare officers and supersedes 
reference (a).  Retaining EOD warfare officers is a top priority for the 
Navy.

2.  Program Authority.  This bonus is authorized under section 355 of 
reference (b).  All applications for this bonus will be submitted to EOD 
Officer Assignments and Placement (PERS-416) for approval, payment 
processing, and tracking.

3.  Program Overview.  Qualified lieutenants (LT) will be offered the 
opportunity to commit up to a four-year agreement.  Qualified lieutenant 
commanders (LCDR) will have the opportunity to commit up to a three-year 
agreement.  Program eligibility and ineligibility requirements are listed in 
paragraphs 4 and 5 respectively.  Bonus amounts for each agreement are listed 
in paragraph 7.  These agreements will be eligible for prorated payments.

4.  Program Eligibility.
    a.  LT EOD CSRB:
        (1) Unrestricted line (URL) officers (designator 1140) that qualified 
EOD Officer Warfare and EOD department head; awarded the Navy additional 
qualification designations (AQDs) of KG5 and KG0.
        (2) Completed seven years of commissioned service (YCS).
        (3) Bonus contract cannot extend an officer past 12 YCS.
        (4) Completed any service commitment incurred through original 
commissioning.
        (5) Medically and physically qualified for assignment to sea duty.
    b.  LCDR EOD CSRB:
        (1) URL officers (designator 1140) that qualified EOD officer warfare 
and EOD department head; awarded the Navy AQDs of KG5 and KG0.
        (2) Completed 12 YCS.
        (3) Bonus contract cannot extend an officer past 16 YCS.
        (4) Medically and physically qualified for assignment to sea duty

5.  Program Ineligibility.
    a.  Officers who have transferred their Post-9/11 GI Bill or Montgomery 
GI Bill selected reserve education benefits to a dependent or spouse are not 
eligible for a bonus in accordance with reference (c) until the service 
obligation for the transfer is served.
    b.  An officer is not eligible for the CSRB if the officer has more than 
26 years of active qualifying service or commissioned service.

6.  Program Execution.
    a.  As the program manager, the EOD Warfare (BUPERS-311E) Officer 
Community Manager has been delegated the authority to administer the EOD CSRB 
program per applicable laws, DoD directives/instructions, and this NAVADMIN.
    b.  Submit applications to PERS-416 using format in paragraph 
7. PERS-416 is delegated the authority to:
        (1) Evaluate the eligibility of EOD officers applying for the EOD 
CSRB.
        (2) Accept EOD officer agreements to remain on active duty for the 
stated period in exchange for an EOD CSRB.
    c.  Service members will receive the initial installment of their bonus 
after the acceptance of the agreement by PERS-416; future payments will occur 
on their anniversary date through the terms of the agreement.
    d.  Upon acceptance of an officer*s agreement by the program manager, the 
amount of the bonus becomes fixed and the officer will incur a firm service 
obligation.
    e.  CSRB requests for personnel who are being processed for officer 
designation removal or restoration will be held in abeyance, pending final 
resolution of action in question.
    f.  Annual LT EOD CSRB contract quotas will be based on LCDR requirements 
for the EOD warfare officer community and special and incentive pay funding 
controls.  If the number of LT initial contracts exceeds the available fiscal 
year EOD CSRB budget, approval criteria will be determined by the EOD warfare 
CSRB program manager, EOD warfare community leadership, and PERS-416.
    g.  Annual LCDR CSRB contract quotas will be based on commander 
requirements for the EOD warfare officer community, as well as special and 
incentive pay funding controls.  If the number of LCDR initial contracts 
exceeds the available fiscal year EOD CSRB budget, approval criteria will be 
determined by the EOD warfare CSRB program manager, EOD warfare community 
leadership, and PERS-416.
    h.  All commanding officers (CO) shall encourage qualified officers to 
submit applications for EOD CSRB and must endorse all requests in writing.  
Commands must ensure applications are accurate and verify applicants meet the 
eligibility requirements, including no pending actions which may render an 
applicant ineligible for the EOD CSRB.  Application delays increase the 
likelihood that the community quotas will be met before an officer*s 
application is received.

7.  Bonus Amounts.
    a.  EOD CSRB agreement obligations will run concurrently with any 
obligated service the officer has incurred for education or fellowships, post 
graduate education, or due to a permanent change of duty station.  Officers 
who choose to transfer their Post-9/11 GI bill benefits, per reference (c) 
and paragraph 5a above, are not eligible for a CSRB agreement until 
completion of that service obligation.
    b.  LT EOD CSRB:  Members will have the opportunity to receive up to 
$80,000 for a four-year agreement.  This contract cannot extend an officer 
past 12 YCS.
        (1) Four-year agreement.  Qualified officers who commit to four years 
of additional active-duty service will receive $20,000 per year, paid in 
equal installments over the course of the agreement.
        (2) Three-year agreement.  Qualified officers who commit to three 
years of additional active-duty service will receive $15,000 per year, paid 
in equal installments over the course of the agreement.
    c.  LCDR EOD CSRB:  Members will have the opportunity to receive up to 
$46,000 for a three-year agreement.  This contract cannot extend an officer 
past 16 YCS.  Qualified officers who commit to three years of additional 
active-duty service will receive $22,000 upon their 12 YCS and $12,000 per 
year thereafter over the course of the agreement.

8.  Transition to the renewed and modified EOD CSRB.  For officers currently 
in the application window for future contracts, the following has been 
authorized:
    a.  LT EOD CSRB:  Officers must be eligible for a minimum three-year 
contract.
        (1) Officers who have received any installment for their LT three-
year contract previously authorized under reference (a) are not eligible to 
apply for the renewed and revised EOD LT CSRB.
        (2) Year Groups (YG) 2007 and junior are eligible to apply for the 
renewed and modified CSRB.
        (3) Officers in Year Groups 2007 and 2008 only, who are board-
eligible for EOD department head but have not yet received their KG0 AQD from 
the EOD Warfare Department Head Administrative Screen Board, will be eligible 
to apply for the LT CSRB.
    b.  LCDR EOD CSRB:  Officers with at least 12 YCS who meet the 
eligibility requirements of this NAVADMIN are eligible to apply. This 
contract cannot extend the officer past 16 YCS.

9.  Application Process.
    a.  Officers within one year of eligibility may apply for the EOD CSRB 
via their CO or delegated authority.
    b.  Scanned copies of applications for EOD CSRB are requested to be 
e-mailed to PERS-416, EOD Officer Assignments and Placement, Administrative 
Assistant (PERS-416A), and BUPERS-311E.  Submission of the signed original 
contracts and endorsements are no longer required to be submitted by mail.
    c.  General Notes.
        (1) Applications will be held until payment eligibility date.
        (2) Applications will be binding upon the date of approval.
    d.  Sample application format for EOD CSRB can be found on the EOD 
Warfare OCM website at http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/officer/communitymanagers/Unrestricted/Pages/ExplosiveOrdnanceDisposalOCM
.aspx.

10.  Recoupment and Repayment Policy.
    a.  EOD CSRB payments will be stopped for officers who become ineligible 
for this incentive or fail to complete the full period of additional 
obligated service.  Situations requiring recoupment are in accordance with 
section 373 of reference (b).
    b.  If an officer becomes ineligible for the EOD CSRB for any of the 
reasons below, payments will stop, but repayment of payments already received 
will not be required:
        (1)  Disability not the result of misconduct or willful negligence, 
or not incurred during a period of unauthorized absence.
        (2)  Separation from the naval service by operation of laws or 
regulations independent of misconduct.
        (3)  Death (see subparagraph c below).
        (4)  Where the Secretary of the Navy determines repayment would be 
against equity and good conscience, or would be contrary to the best 
interests of the United States.
    c.  For officers who die while serving under an EOD CSRB service 
agreement, the remaining EOD CSRB balance will be paid as a lump sum as part 
of the settlement of the officer’s final military pay account.  If death is 
determined to be the result of the member’s own misconduct, future payments 
will be stopped and unearned portions of the bonus will be recouped, as 
applicable, in accordance with procedures established for members whose 
inability to complete a contracted period of service is voluntary or the 
result of misconduct.

11.  Additional guidance, information, and updates regarding the EOD CSRB are 
available at the EOD warfare officer community manager’s website.

12.  Point of Contact:  CDR Michael Tollison, EOD Officer Community Manager, 
(BUPERS-311E) at (901) 874-4991/DSN 822 or via e-mail at 
michael.tollison(at)navy.mil.

13.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

14.  Released by Vice Admiral W. F. Moran, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
