UNCLASSIFIED
ROUTINE
R 271653Z JUN 18
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 156/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/SAILOR EARLY RETURN TO SEA PROGRAM//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/071453ZAUG17//
AMPN/REF A IS NAVADMIN 192/17, OPTIMIZING SENIOR ENLISTED (E7-E9) 
ASSIGNMENTS.//

RMKS/1.  Effective immediately this NAVADMIN announces the restoration of the 
Sailor Early Return to Sea (SERTS) policy to reduce the number of sea duty 
vacancies for pay grades E4-E9.

2.  The purpose of this policy is to fill critical skill requirements at sea 
by transferring a limited number of Sailors from their shore duty assignment 
earlier than their projected rotation date (PRD).
    a.  Enlisted rating detailers will fill high priority E4-E9 sea duty 
requirements by using the authorized transfer window of -6/+6 months from the 
PRD of a Sailor.  Navy Personnel Command (NPC) will identify SERTS candidates 
from the criteria listed below:
        (1) Sailors who have completed at least 18-23 months of shore duty 
will be considered for SERTS.  However, they will not transfer prior to 
completion of 24 months in their shore assignment.
        (2) Length of time on shore
        (3) Current or frocked paygrade
        (4) Fleet experience
        (5) Navy enlisted classification codes (NEC) held
        (6) Type of previous sea duty
        (7) Remaining obligated service
    b.  NPC will consider the potential impacts on the shore duty command and 
balance it against at-sea priorities.  Sailors assigned to Special Program 
duties such as recruit division commanders, recruiters, brig duty, and 
instructors will not be considered for SERTS.
    c.  In addition to a candidate filling a billet in current pay grade, 
candidates may also be selected to fill vacant requirements within their pay 
band:  Supervisor (E7-E9), Journeyman (E5-E6), and Apprentice (E1-E4).
        (1) CPO Candidates:  E8 and E9 pay grades may be chosen to fill 
vacant E7 and E8 requirements, and E7 pay grade may be chosen to fill vacant 
E8 requirements as outlined in reference (a).  In the case of nuclear-trained 
Sailors, Commander, Navy Personnel Command (COMNAVPERSCOM), Enlisted 
Placement Management Branch (PERS-4013) must approve E8 requirements filled 
by E7 Sailors.
        (2) Petty Officer Candidates:  May be chosen to fill vacant 
requirements within their pay band.  Exceptions will be in line with manning 
control authority guidelines.
    d.  The rating detailer will notify the Sailor and the placement 
coordinator will notify the current command of the possible early transfer of 
the Sailor.  Within 15 days upon notification, the Sailor and the command may 
submit an adverse impact statement based on the potential early transfer to 
sea duty.  If there are extenuating circumstances or mission requirements 
that preclude a Sailor from receiving PCS orders in support of SERTS, those 
circumstances must be submitted to COMNAVPERSCOM, Enlisted Distribution 
Branch (PERS-40) via email to the rating detailer of the Sailor or the 
placement coordinator of the command.  Following the 15-day notification 
period and after consideration of any impact statement submissions, NPC will 
then select Sailors for the SERTS requirements from the candidate list.  Once 
Sailors are selected for SERTS, rating detailers will notify those Sailors 
accordingly and placement coordinators will notify the commands.
    e.  Those Sailors selected for SERTS will be issued PCS orders and will 
have their PRD set to reflect the prescribed sea tour (PST) based on their 
sea shore flow.
    f.  Sailors who have sufficient time remaining on their enlistment 
contract to execute a return to sea duty PCS, and who decline to obligate to 
their PST, will have orders written through the expiration of their current 
enlistment contract.  Sailors who subsequently reenlist or extend will remain 
at sea to complete their PST or until end of obligated service, whichever is 
shorter.
    g.  Requests to transfer to the Fleet Reserve submitted subsequent to 
selection for SERTS by Sailors who have more than 1 year of contract time 
remaining may be disapproved.
    h.  High year tenure (HYT) requests for those Sailors executing orders in 
support of SERTS duty will receive favorable consideration.
    i.  Nuclear-trained Sailors will continue to be detailed in line with 
Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program priorities.

3.  To encourage personnel to voluntarily return to sea duty, the following 
incentives are currently offered:
    a.  Voluntary Sea Duty Program
    b.  HYT waiver consideration (nuclear-trained Sailors applying for HYT 
waivers require Nuclear Program Manager (OPNAV (N133))
approval)
    c.  Sea Duty Incentive Pay-curtailment if the Sailor meets the specific 
eligibility requirements that are identified on the NPC website at 
http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/career/payandbenefits/pages/sdip.aspx.

4.  While the intent of this policy change is to improve Fleet readiness, 
every effort will be made to minimize the disruption to the careers and lives 
of our Sailors and their families.

5.  Points of contact:  NPC Customer Service Center at
1-866-827-5672 (U-ASK-NPC).

6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
