CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 141823Z JUL 23 MID120000297181U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 156/23 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/JUN// 
 
SUBJ/FLANK SPEED CONTINUED JOURNEY// 
 
REF/A/MSG/OPNAV N2N6/071910ZFEB22// 
REF/B/DOC/SECNAV/26JUL22// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 030/22 THAT PROVIDED AN OVERALL FLANK SPEED UPDATE 
DURING FY22. REF B IS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 5200.48 ON 
CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION. 
 
POC/ANDREJ STARE/CIV/OPNAV N2N6D2D3/TEL: (571) 256-8283 
/EMAIL: ANDREJ.P.STARE.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides updates to the latest Flank Speed 
capabilities and efforts since the last update provided in reference (a).   
As we continue to enhance users' experience, we ask for the Flank Speed 
community, from the top-down, to embrace the vast capabilities offered.   
Continue to leverage the information and training available on the Flank 
Speed HUB and provide feedback to help drive our future capabilities. 
 
2.  Flank Speed (FS) guidance, account management, infrastructure updates, 
and collaboration capabilities. 
    a.  The FS community is reminded of their responsibility to protect their 
personal data and Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) per reference 
(b).  Site and Teams owners are responsible for protecting hosted CUI.  For 
additional CUI guidance and restrictions, users can access the CUI Primer 
site that is available on the FS Hub's Self Service and Support Page.  In 
addition, users can visit the Department of the Navy (DON) Chief Information 
Officer website for DON guidance on CUI 
(https://www.doncio.navy.mil/ContentView.aspx?id=13349). 
    b.  Account Management: 
       (1)  FS Account Services Tool (FsAST).  The Move, Add, Change/Naval 
Enterprise Cloud Service Tool was replaced by FsAST to manage FS accounts.   
Claimant Contract Technical Representatives (CTRs), or other authorized 
account managers, can use FsAST to request new accounts, service changes, and 
command transfers. Contact the FsAST Team for submission and processing 
questions at FsAST(at)us.navy.mil and for application support at FsAST- 
Support(at)us.navy.mil. 
       (2)  Non-Person Entity (NPE) Accounts.  CTRs or account managers can 
request NPE accounts through FsAST.  Examples of NPE accounts are email 
distribution lists or shared mailboxes.  The accounts are provisioned in 
Defense Enterprise Provisioning Online and require the utilization of Defense 
Instruction System Agency's naming convention.  For a copy of the NPE naming 
convention template, or for additional guidance, contact the FsAST Team. 
        (3)  Account Disablement.  Common causes for account disablements are 
Common Access Card (CAC) revocations, tenant entitlement changes (i.e., 
moving from Navy to Army), or cybersecurity network violations per DoDI 
8170.01.  If account issues are preventing users from accessing FS, they need 
to contact their Command Information Technology Support Staff, Information 
Systems Security Manager, FS Champion Representative, or Service Desk for 
support. 
    c.  Infrastructure and Application Updates: 
        (1)  Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) 'H' Drive and scan storage.   
Users' personal NMCI 'H' Drives are scheduled for decommission; however, the 
formal decommission dates are to be determined at this time.  Customers are 
encouraged to move all files from their 'H' drive to their FS OneDrive.  A 
list of blocked file types can be accessed via FathomBot.  Customers can 
still scan files to their personal drives until the implementation of a final 
scan to file solution. 
        (2)  SharePoint Online (SPO).  Over 146,000 sites have migrated to 
FS.  Site Collection Administrators (SCAs) are reminded to maintain the 
material on their SPO sites current. 
             (a)  Guest customers who cannot view SPO sites should ask their 
SCA to validate their external sharing setting.  The setting should be set to 
'on' in order to view SPO sites. 
             (b)  SharePoint Framework (SPFx) applications at the site 
collection are approved for use by SPO developers in FS. 
        (3)  The Power Platform, a suite of tools that enable customers to 
create automated workflows, data visualizations, and applications, will be 
available to all customers on the network, using a virtual private network 
(VPN) or from home without a VPN, starting 1 June 2023.  Click here to learn 
more about the efficiencies the Power Platform delivers and how it can 
support mission objectives: https://flankspeed.sharepoint-
mil.us/sites/NAVWAR_PWR_Nexus. 
    d.  Collaboration Capabilities.  Explore and leverage the vast 
capabilities to collaborate in FS.  Navigate to 
https://portal.apps.mil to see the suite of available applications. 
Allow and make time to save time, innovate, and grow. 
        (1)  Department of Defense (DoD) Cross-Tenant Collaboration and Guest 
Communication is available in Teams by utilizing the full email address of 
the DoD or Commercial M365 customers to chat and call across tenants.  Guides 
are available on the FS Hub's Self Service and Support Page that detail how 
to use cross-tenant capabilities. 
        (2)  Mark all Teams and Groups Private during setup.  Public teams 
must be approved by the echelon II and can be requested via the FS Hub. 
        (3)  Teams meetings can be recorded with transcriptions. 
Recordings are automatically deleted after 60 days if not adjusted by the 
customer. 
  (4)  Nautilus Virtual Desktop (NVD) is the Navy's Virtualized Desktop 
Solution set.  NVD is currently scaling up to 50,000 customers in order to 
further analyze use cases, cloud consumption, and workforce resiliency it 
delivers.  NVD can be used from any compatible device, any network, and 
without the need of a VPN connection.  No data ever resides on the endpoint 
device when using NVD; this removes potential for a data spillage to occur 
from NVD to a personal, company, or kiosk device.  Contact the Command FS 
representative to obtain access to NVD. 
 
3.  The FS Hub is the centralized location for related documentation, 
guidance, policy, and support 
(https://flankspeed.sharepoint-
mil.us/sites/Flank_Speed_Hub/SitePages/Home.aspx). 
  The FS Hub will provide customers with: 
    a.  The Capabilities Roadmap that shows completed and targeted 
capabilities for the current fiscal year. 
    b.  The Dashboards site that provides various FS data metrics. 
Users who have a Power BI report that can benefit the larger FS community are 
encouraged to submit an online intake form on the Dashboards site so it can 
be shared with the larger FS community. 
    c.  The Digital Suggestion Box, which is a feedback mechanisms to guide 
future services and support. 
    d.  The Records Management Hub for training, guidance, and announcements. 
    e.  The SPO Information Hub for CUI guidance and SPO Ticketing System. 
    f.  Self Service and Support resources like FathomBot, "How To" guides, 
tips, video tutorials, policies, governance, and more. 
    g.  Weekly live training and events on the Virtual Training calendar. 
    h.  FS Evolve 365 learning portal that offers on-demand self-help 
training with thousands of 'snackable' videos and guidance. 
    i.  The FS Hub community page that connects our workforce with 
communities of common interest, such as, Coffee with a Customer Engineer to 
discuss common issues, Co-Developers Team, Power Platform Team, Innovation 
Team, FS Training Team, Navy Section 508 Team, Outside the contiguous United 
States Champion Network, and Navy Champion Network (NCN) who are 
collaborative, supportive, forward leaning, and resourceful. 
 
4.  Get Real, Get Better (GRGB).  Our efforts aim to improve the customer 
experience and close the gap on commercial parity.  The Voice of the Customer 
will help lead our actions towards GRGB as noted in the CNO's remarks 
https://www.navy.mil/Resources/Blogs/Detail/Article/2894808/get-real-get-
better/. 
 
5.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until cancelled or superseded, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
6.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
