UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 082123Z APR 20 MID110000564515U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 104/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/APR//

SUBJ/CNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET//

RMKS/1.  The events of the past week have been difficult for our Navy and our 
nation.  We will learn from them.  But make no mistake, we are moving 
forward.  The Navy has our orders and we are executing them.

2.  As I write, we have thousands of Sailors on mission, above, under, and on 
the seas as well as here at home on the front lines of the coronavirus 
crisis.  We are operating far forward on 90 ships, including 3 aircraft 
carriers and 2 big deck amphibious ships.  Navy Cyber teams are defending our 
networks.  Seabees are converting commercial buildings into medical 
facilities across six states.  3,000 Navy doctors, nurses and corpsmen, 
including hundreds of reservists, are caring for our fellow Americans on USNS 
MERCY, COMFORT, in New York Citys Javits Center, and in civilian hospitals.
Hundreds more deployed to treat the sick in Dallas and New Orleans.  The 
NIMITZ carrier strike group, and her air wing at Lemoore are in 14 day 
Restriction of Movement (ROM) as they ramp up to deploy.  Same for our SSBN 
crews.  Countless more Sailors are leaning in to support them across our 
fleet staffs, intelligence centers, training facilities, and supply depots.  
More than 6,000 recruits at Great lakes are preparing to head to the fleet.

3.  Given this, I have three priorities for us right now.
First, our health and safety.  Second, ongoing fleet operations and our 
support to the coronavirus effort.  Third, continuing to generate the 
enormous amount of support required to keep numbers 1 and 2 on track.  I know 
much of that effort is behind the scenes and out of the limelight but every 
bit of it is critical.

4.  We must ensure the health of the force.  And we must be laser-focused on 
the Fleet from manning to maintenance, and from training to warfighting.  
Operational readiness is our job and every one of us has a role.  Nobody sits 
the bench.

5.  Everyone must pull together.  And in this new environment of coronavirus, 
we are all learning, adapting, and improving by the hour.  There is no better 
example of this than USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT staring down an invisible enemy 
dedicated in their efforts  making phenomenal progress, and providing lessons 
for the Navy and beyond.

6.  America. Has. A. Great. Navy.  Our nation counts on you and so do I.  
Never more proud to be your CNO.

7.  Released by Admiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

