UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 061639Z JAN 22 MID600051392937U
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 005/22
 
SUBJ/2022 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//
 
REF/A/DOC/OSD/20SEP21/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/16DEC19//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//
REF/D/DOC/OSD/29OCT21/-/NOTAL//
NARR/REF (A) IS ATSD MEMO ISSUING DOD 2022 PUBLIC AFFAIRS COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT PLAN.
REF (B) IS OPNAVINST 5726.8C, OUTREACH:  AMERICAS NAVY, AND ESTABLISHES NAVY
COMMUNITY OUTREACH REQUIREMENTS.
REF (C) IS NAVADMIN 148/16 ANNOUNCING THE AMERICAN CONNECTIONS PROGRAM.
REF (D) IS DOD GUIDANCE FOR COVID-19.
POC/ROB NEWELL/CIV/CHINFO/LOC:  WASHINGTON, DC/TEL (703) 614-1879
/EMAIL:  ROBERT.D.NEWELL.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//
 
1.  In support of references (a) through (d), this NAVADMIN issues
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community Outreach
Program for 2022.
 
2.  The second half of 2021 saw the return of in-person community
outreach.  Navy Weeks; Navy Demonstration Team Performances; Executive
Engagements Visits; San Francisco Fleet Week; and visits by surface ship,
aircraft carrier and submarine crews to their namesake cities were safely
executed while staying in compliance with HPCON, CDC, and local civilian
authority COVID guidelines.  Per reference (d), commands are required to 
follow the same approach in 2022.  In the event public health measures 
restrict face-to-face engagements, commands are once again encouraged to 
engage the public virtually using existing IT platforms.  The following is 
provided to guide commands in both their in-person and virtual community 
outreach efforts.
 
3.  Data.  National Surveys continue to show a growing overall understanding 
of the Navy’s importance to national security, but demographic disparities 
exist.
    a.  28 PCT of Americans now say the Navy is the most important service to
our countrys national security, the highest number amongst the services.
    b.  This rise has not been proportionate across demographics:  38 PCT of 
18-29 year-old men view the Navy as most important compared to just 12 PCT of
women from the same demographic.  In the 30-39 year-old demographic the
disparity is also significant with 35 PCT of men viewing the Navy as most
important compared to 16 PCT of women.
    c.  While 72 PCT of Americans view the Navy favorably, just 51 PCT of 
adults under 30 do, with the number even lower amongst 18-29 year-old women 
at 44 PCT.
    d.  57 PCT of 18-29 year-old men say they know some or a lot about the 
Navy compared to 26 PCT of women in that same age group.
    e.  Similar disparities also exist when segmented for race.  19 PCT of
African Americans view the Navy as most important to national security while 
25 PCT of Hispanics do.  66 PCT of African Americans and 66 PCT of Hispanics 
view the Navy favorably.
 
4.  Goal.  Continue to increase the number of Americans who understand the 
Navy’s importance to national security.
 
5.  Objectives.
    a.  Ensure 50 PCT of all community outreach engagements focus on 13-29 
year olds and 50 PCT of all engagements within this age group focus on young 
women and young people of color.
    b.  Increase the number of women under 30 who view the Navy as most
    important to national security from 12 PCT to 17 PCT.
    c.  Increase the number of women under 30 who view the Navy favorably 
from 44 PCT to 49 PCT.
    d.  Increase the number of African Americans who view the Navy as most
    important to national security from 19 PCT to 24 PCT.
    e.  Increase the number of Hispanic Americans who view the Navy as most
    important to national security from 25 PCT to 28 PCT.
 
6.  Reference (a) has authorized the following community outreach programs 
for Calendar Year 2022 (CY22):
    a.  Eight Fleet Weeks.  Tasking and responsibilities for these events 
will be provided SEPCOR by cognizant operational and regional commanders.  In 
order to best meet Fleet Week Community Outreach requirements, commanders are
encouraged to provide a minimum of the following ships:  one LHA/LHD/LSD; two
DDGs; one LCS.
        (1) (East Coast) New Orleans, LA; Port Everglades, FL; New York City;
        Baltimore, MD.
        (2) (West Coast) Los Angeles, CA; San Francisco, CA; Seattle, WA;
        Portland, OR.
    b.  15 Navy Weeks.
        (1) Mobile, AL, 21 FEB  1 MAR
        (2) Savannah, GA, 14 - 20 MAR
        (3) Tampa, FL, 21 - 27 MAR
        (4) Trenton, NJ, 2 - 9 MAY
        (5) Richmond, VA, 16 - 22 MAY
        (6) Memphis, TN, 13 - 19 JUN
        (7) Detroit, MI, 11 - 17 JUL
        (8) Milwaukee, WI, 18 - 24 JUL
        (9) Dayton, OH, 25 - 31 JUL
        (10) San Jose, CA, 15 - 21 AUG
        (11) Albuquerque, NM, 12 - 18 SEP
        (12) Reno, NV, 26 SEP  2 OCT
        (13) Charleston, WV, 10 - 16 OCT
        (14) Houston, TX, 24 - 30 OCT
        (15) Atlanta, GA, 31 OCT  6 NOV
    c.  Per reference (b), the Navy Week program is a community outreach
    requirement, led by the Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO), and is
    designed to provide Americans around the country with the opportunity to
    personally connect with their Navy.  As such, principal stakeholders 
identified in reference (b), as well as subordinate commands specified in 
subsequent tasking, will support the 2022 Navy Week campaign to the maximum 
extent operational schedules allow.
    d.  The American Connections program, announced in reference (c), will
    continue to be a prominent component of the Navy 2022 community outreach
    strategy.  Managed by NAVCO, it was established to share the Navy story 
with media across the country serving markets that generally do not receive 
Navy news and information.  In 2022, the program will include the following 
elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys production teams to 
commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos of assigned 
Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those Sailors have local
        connections.  NAVCO is planning 10-15 Media Production Visits in 2022 
in support of key Navy communication priorities and programs.  If travel is 
not feasible, NAVCO will work with commands to conduct remote media 
production visits.  In accordance with reference (b), commands are required 
to support media production visits from NAVCO.  Expected areas of focus for 
2022 include:
            (a) Centennial of U.S. Navy Aircraft Carrier
            (b) Undersea Warfare
            (c) Strategic Deterrence/Ohio Replacement
            (d) Surface Readiness/Shipbuilding
        (2) Media advisory service.  Commands are encouraged to continue
        highlighting their Sailors awards, promotions, retirements, changes 
of command and other recognition by emailing content to
navyoutreach.civ(at)us.navy.mil.  NAVCO shares with media where Sailors have
local connections and provides links to commands so Sailors can share with
family and friends.
        (3) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day, commands
throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos featuring the
professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments of Navy 
commands.  NAVCO provides these stories and photos to media where Sailors 
have local connections and to media with ties to namesake units.  In 
accordance with reference (b), commanding officers are encouraged to, "ensure 
all internally produced media products for public release include local 
connections for any Sailors identified in stories and photos."
        (4) Radio shoutout service.  A toll-free telephone service (1-855-OUR
        -NAVY or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to record a short 
greeting, which is shared with radio stations where Sailors have local
        connections.  Greetings can be submitted in conjunction with a 
holiday or observance, such as Independence Day, Veterans Day, 
etc.  Greetings can also be sent from Sailors, or namesake units, to offer 
support to their home teams participating in major sporting 
events.  Throughout the year, Sailors can share shoutouts to commemorate 
milestones such as birthdays, anniversaries, graduations, etc.  Those wishing 
to be notified of shoutout opportunities can e-mail navyoutreach(at)navy.mil.
    e.  Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval Aviation Outreach is particularly
effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring a primary warfighting
platform to inland markets.  The following Naval Aviation Outreach activities
are authorized in 2022 when HPCON levels and CDC/local authority health
guidelines warrant:
        (1) 34 full Blue Angels performances.
        (2) 70 Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) performances.
        (3) Six Navy Hosted Air Shows/Open Houses:  NAF El Centro, CA; NAS 
New Orleans, LA; USNA, Annapolis, MD; NAS Oceana, VA; NAS Jacksonville, FL; 
NAS Pensacola, FL.  These events are authorized to have aerial demonstrations 
by aviation assets organic to the installation.
        (4) 42 TACAIRDEMO performances/Legacy Flights at Chief of Information
        (CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not 
performing.
        (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows and other
events.
        (6) 50 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by CHINFO),
equally divided between East and West Coast aviation assets, at CHINFO
-authorized events.  Sporting events are permitted one regular season and one
post-season flyover at home games or matches, unless otherwise approved by
CHINFO.  Requests are submitted to NAVCO using DD Form 2535, reviewed by the
Aviation Outreach Working Group (AOWG) consisting of representatives from 
CNAL,CNAP, NAVCO and CHINFO, before being forwarded up to CHINFO for final 
approval.
        (7) Aviation outreach support that falls into the following 
categories is not subject to limits specified in reference (a):
            (a) Military services retain operational authority over support 
for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not considered community
outreach events.
            (b) Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended primarily 
for an internal audience are not considered outreach events and may be 
conducted with TYCOM approval.  This includes U.S. Naval Academy events.
            (c) Aviation outreach support, to include flyovers, at CHINFO
-authorized events in the local area are permitted when it is deemed by the
local or regional commander to be in the interest of maintaining good 
relations with key community partners and organizations.
    f.  14 Continental United States Port Visits.  From an outreach 
perspective, there is no more effective means to showcase the Navy's 
capabilities and its talented Sailors than allowing Americans to visit a ship 
or submarine:
        (1) (East Coast) eight cities TBD.
        (2) (West Coast) six cities TBD.
        (3) Other port visits conducted primarily for training or operational
        purposes are not subject to limits specified in reference (a).  Per 
reference
        (b), the following elements should be incorporated into every 
community outreach port visit SOE:
            (a) Media day (pierside press availability and a shipboard tour).
            (b) Very important person (VIP) reception.
            (c) VIP tours for local civic and community leaders.
            (d) The maximum amount of public visitation possible to the 
extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
            (e) Two or more community relations projects, such as beach clean
-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with appropriate media 
coverage.
    g.  Civic and Executive Outreach.  Reference (b) approves dedicated
community outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic and
executive outreach.
        (1) 25 Executive Outreach Visits.  Suggested cities for FY2022 
include, but are not limited to, Kansas City, MO; Salt Lake City, UT; Tri-
Cities, TN; San Antonio, TX; Madison, WI; Buffalo, NY; Boise, ID; Helena, MT; 
Pierre, SD; Little Rock, AR; Long Island, NY; Chicago, IL; Columbus, OH; 
Louisville, KY; Grand Forks, ND; Grand Junction, CO; Omaha, NE; Philadelphia, 
PA; Tucson, AZ; Waco, TX; Fort Worth, TX; Athens, GA; Idaho Falls, ID.  NAVCO 
administers the Navy's Executive Engagement Visit (EEV) program for Flag 
Officers, SES civilians and Post-Deployment Commanding Officers conducting 
in-person multi-day or virtual outreach engagements in U.S. cities.  NAVCO 
will coordinate itineraries for participating Navy leaders to include 
engagements with corporate executives, government officials, education 
leaders, civic groups, veterans organizations, diversity organizations and 
media.  As an extension of the EEV program, NAVCO will also conduct outreach 
engagement visits for post-deployment commanding officers.  NAVCO welcomes 
flag officers, SES civilians and post-deployment commanding officers who are 
interested in conducting outreach to areas of the United States not mentioned 
above where they have close personal ties.
        (2) Per reference (b), travel by Flag Officers, SES civilians and
        members of the command triad outside the local area to participate in 
community outreach and other representational events that demonstrably help 
achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and will be considered essential 
official business in the governments interest.
        (3) Navy Community Ambassador Program.  The Navy Community Ambassador
        Program stood up in September 2021 to develop a network of non-DoD 
civilian community leaders who understand the strategic communication 
challenges facing the Navy, and who can present engagement opportunities made 
possible by their experience, connections, and audiences.  The first seven 
ambassadors joined the program in 2021 to represent D.C., Virginia, and 
Maryland.  In 2022, the program aims to add additional ambassadors to the 
program who have access to audiences comprised of young women and communities 
of color, for both in-person and digital engagement.  Those wishing to 
nominate an ambassador or learn more about the program can e-mail 
katryn.a.mccalment.ctr(at)us.navy.mil.
    h.  Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most effective
means to connect Americans with their Navy is through strong and enduring
namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the requirements specified for 
the Navy Week program referenced above, reference (a) approves visits by
crewmembers of the following ships and submarines with namesake ties to their
namesake city or state:  USS Kidd, USS Charleston, USS Omaha, USS Pearl 
Harbor,USS Cincinnati, USS Mobile Blue, USS John S McCain, USS Somerset, USS
Princeton, USS Michael Murphy, USS Mobile Bay, USS Oakland, USS Kansas City,
USS Montgomery, USS Portland, USS Anchorage, USS Essex, USS Gonzalez, USS
Bainbridge, USS San Antonio, USS Vicksburg, USS Porter, USS Laboon, USS St.
Louis, USS Little Rock, USS Wichita, USS Paul Ignatius, USS San Jacinto, USS
Lassen, USS Mason, USS Farragut, USS Arlington, USS Ronald Reagan.
    i.  Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  U.S. Navy Band and
Fleet Band Activities will oversee and collect all community outreach
measurement guidelines as detailed in reference (a).  Reference (a) approves
the following:
        (1) Fall/spring/summer tours
        (2) Fleet/regional band performances
        (3) U.S. Navy Band international performances
            (a) Singapore International Band Festival, July 2022
            (b) Norwegian Military Tattoo, Oslo, Norway, September 2022
        (4) International and Midwest Band and Orchestra clinic
        (5) Navy Band public outreach concerts
        (6) Concerts outside the NCR
        (7) Large public concerts (DC Concerts on the Ave/Christmas concert)
        (8) Ceremonial Guard:  Parade outside of NCR/seven Navy Weeks
    j.  Social Media and Emerging Trends Outreach.  Social Media remains a
growing component of the Navy 2022 community outreach strategy.  A separate
department, managed by NAVCO, was established in 2021 to share the Navy story
across social media platforms nationwide serving markets that generally do 
not receive Navy social media news, content and information.  Commands are
encouraged to consider the following 2021 best practices:
        (1) Best Practices.
            (a) On all platforms always use tagging functions.  Geotag the
            location, tag the city and local officials, tag groups (schools, 
nonprofits, businesses) and use Navy hashtags and popular local city 
hashtags.
            (b) Create and share videos that highlight the diversity and 
talent of our Sailors.
            (c) Instagram Reels are a must use and consistently outperform 
all other types of posts in terms of engagement.
            (d) Encourage influencers to cross share content from NAVCO to 
their audiences.  Give specific guidance for tags and hashtags for the best 
results.
            (e) Coordinate with CHINFO OI-2 to share content on Navy flagship
accounts to access larger audiences.
            (f) YouTube (YT) reaches more millennials than all TV networks
combined, and 80 PCT of Gen Zers say YT has helped them gain skills/prepare 
for their future.  Gallup reports 33 PCT of people 18-29 said they heard 
about the Navy in the last 30 days on YT.  To reach target audiences use 
popular search terms in titles, tags and descriptions.  Incorporate 
interesting thumbnails and include end cards in videos.  Create a purposeful 
posting schedule and have a complete channel profile (background banner, 
populated channels tab, video on auto play when users view account).
        (2) Ship2Shore (S2S) Program.  Take advantage of this NAVCO platform 
to highlight the compelling stories of Sailors.  POC is CDR John Fage,
john.e.fage.mil(at)us.navy.mil, (901) 874-5802.
    k.  Navy Birthday and Historical Observances.  Funding is approved under
reference (a) for commands and activities to commemorate the Navy Birthday 
and  Battle of Midway.
    l.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  For activities not included in
reference (a), use of local resources to support outreach activities in the
local area is authorized and encouraged.  Local area is defined in Joint 
Travel Regulation, Chapter 2, Article 0206.
    m.  Entertainment Media.  Support is authorized for entertainment media
engaged in the production of the feature films Devotion and Top Gun: 
Maverick; television series NCIS and NCIS Hawaii; the multi-part NETFLIX 
Series Making of an F-35 Fighter Pilot and other entertainment media projects 
approved for support by DoD and CHINFO.
    n.  Aircraft Carrier, ship and submarine underway embarks for 
distinguished visitors and media will be authorized again as dictated by 
HPCON levels and CDC/local authority guidelines.
 
7.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require approval by 
the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public
Affairs.  Requests for an exception to policy must be forwarded through
CHINFO.  For additional questions pertaining to this NAVADMIN and the 
execution of the Navy's 2022 Community Outreach Plan, please contact Mr. Rob 
Newell at (703) 614-1879, robert.d.newell1.civ(AT)us.navy.mil.
 
8.  Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information.//
 
BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
