UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 182134Z MAR 22 MID200001587848U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 075/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/GUIDANCE FOR CY-22 FULL SPEED AHEAD 3.0 TRAINING// 
 
REF/A/DOC/TF1N FINAL REPORT// 
AMPN/REF A IS TASK FORCE ONE NAVY FINAL REPORT// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for Full Speed Ahead (FSA) 
 
3.0 training and outlines the recommendations for completion and 
documentation. 
 
2.  Background.  FSA 3.0 training builds on the previous courses in the FSA 
series with continued emphasis on character, competence, leadership, personal 
and organizational growth.  It operationalizes the Culture of Excellence 
(COE) emphasizing the themes of toughness, trust and connectedness.  As with 
its predecessors, FSA 3.0 training blends scenario-based videos with small 
group discussions led by command facilitators (CF) or other selected command 
personnel. 
 
3.  Purpose.  The Navy has teams with great culture and great performance, 
but we also see examples of teams with poor culture and weak performance.   
The gap between our best and our worst performers is too great.  To remain 
the worlds strongest Navy, we must consistently have strong performance.  
Reference (a) identified the need to have *open, honest and necessary 
conversations across our Navy* and that *these conversations are vital for 
our Navy team, as understanding and connection builds teamwork and teamwork 
builds trust.*  FSA 3.0 training enables honest, humble and transparent 
discussion about current performance and challenges each of us to 
support others.  FSA 3.0 training is designed to apply Navy problem- 
solving tools and best practices to create opportunities for our 
teams to progress.  The training encourages critical thinking, 
compels respectful and collaborative discussion, inspires adherence 
to the Navy Core Values and champions a more complete integration of 
the core attributes and signature behaviors of the Navy. 
 
4.  Training Approach.  FSA 3.0 training is discretionary training. 
While there is no Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) mandate to 
conduct FSA 3.0 training, there is a strong anecdotal evidence that the 
training is both needed and wanted in the Fleet. As such, subordinate 
commands have the discretion to mandate FSA 3.0 training within their 
organizations.  FSA 3.0 training consists of four (4), 60 to 90 minute 
modules.  Each module is accompanied by facilitation guides for all hands 
audiences, or rank-specific audiences (Junior Sailors [E-1 through E-4], 
critical middle Sailors [E-5 through E-8, O-1 through O-4] and senior Sailors 
[E-9, O-5 and above]).  Each module addresses themes and behaviors that are 
foundational to the Navy’s COE.  Each module includes a realistic dramatized 
video vignette, a documentary video interview segment and facilitated 
discussion.  Each of the four modules can be delivered as stand-alone 
training, but are most effective in succession as each module builds upon 
previous modules.  Commands are encouraged to allow time between modules to 
allow for processing and reflection.  The four FSA 3.0 training modules are:   
Module 1: Sailor Identity and Connectedness,  
Module 2:  Trust and Fairness, 
Module 3:  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, and  
Module 4:  Sailor Today, Sailor Tomorrow. 
 
5.  CF Selection and Training.  Although formal certification is not required 
to deliver FSA 3.0 training, due to the nuanced nature of the discussion FSA 
3.0 training elicits, commands are highly encouraged to use previously 
certified CF to deliver the training, or to send new CF to the FSA 3.0 Train-
the-Trainer (TTT) course. 
There are no specified paygrade requirements for CF, however, all should be 
exemplary and dynamic command members who have the ability to actively engage 
Sailors while delivering the FSA 3.0 TTT course materials.  Previously 
certified CF include those personnel who were certified for Bystander 
Intervention to the Fleet (BI2F-FY15), Chart the Course (CTC-FY16), FSA 
(FY17) or FSA 2.0 (FY18).  Commands may run a report of their qualified CF 
using the NAVADMIN completions report for the course title NETC-FSA 2.0-CF-
CERT in the Fleet Training Management Planning System (FLTMPS).  This 
completion report will reflect all CF certified in fiscal year (FY) 2015, 
FY16 and FY17 under the prior courses CPPD-BI2F-CF-CERT, NETC-CTC-CF-CERT 
or NETC-FSA-CF-CERT. 
    a.  FSA 3.0 TTT Course.  The 21st Century Sailor Office (OPNAV N17) staff 
will conduct CF training in each of the Navy regions throughout the remainder 
of FY22.  The FSA 3.0 TTT course is designed as initial training for newly 
designated CF, refresher training for previously certified CF and TTT for the 
Regional Training Force discussed in subparagraph (b).  A morning and 
afternoon session of the FSA 3.0 TTT course will be offered each day of 
training.  Each session is limited to 30 participants.  The FSA 3.0 TTT 
course is approximately 3 hours long.  The FSA 3.0 TTT course schedule is: 
Naval Region Mid-AtlanticNorfolk, VA29-31 MAR 
Navy Region EURAFRCENTBahrain11-13 APR 
Navy Region SouthwestSan Diego, CA19-21 APR 
Navy Region NorthwestBremerton, WA26-28 APR 
Navy Region HawaiiPearl Harbor, HI10-12 MAY 
Navy Region SoutheastJacksonville, FL17-19 MAY 
Navy Region EURAFRCENTNaples24-26 MAY 
Navy Region JapanYokosuka, Japan15-17 JUN 
Navy Region KoreaKorea     21 JUN 
Navy Region MarianasNimitz Hill, Guam23-24 JUN 
Navy Region Mid-Atlantic  Groton, CT28-30 JUN 
Navy District Washington Washington, DC12-14 JUL 
FSA 3.0 TTT course completion will be documented by OPNAV N17 
facilitators in FLTMPS within 1-2 weeks of course completion, as 
*Full Speed Ahead (FSA) 3.0 Command Facilitator Certification (FSA-3.0-CF-
CERT).* 
    b.  Regional Training Force.  FSA 3.0 training is an enduring training 
and discussion platform.  While many commands will execute the training 
straightaway, others may wait for a pause in operations tempo to 
execute.  Accordingly, OPNAV N17 instructors will train a regional training 
force, leveraging echelon II-IV subject matter experts.  Once trained, the 
regional training force will be empowered to conduct CF training for echelon 
V commands in their region.  Navy regions should work with base commanders to 
identify individuals for the Regional Training Force leveraging command 
climate specialists, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Practitioners, Sexual 
Assault Prevention and Response Officers, Religious Ministry Teams and other 
COE/command resilience team members. 
    c.  Additionally, on the afternoon of the first training day in each 
region, OPNAV N17 will host an O6 or GS15-led informational session for 
command triads and other interested leadership to discuss COE-related topics 
and initiatives. 
    d.  Region Point of Contact (POC).  Regional commanders shall identify 
and appoint a local POC to assist OPNAV N17 personnel with registration and 
logistical coordination to include reserving suitable classroom space and 
ensuring audio and video capabilities. Once appointed, the POC should work 
with base commanders in order to ensure widest dissemination to tenant 
commands to include amplifying registration and logistical information. 
 
6.  Training Delivery.  CF will deliver FSA 3.0 training as small group, 
face-to-face discussions.  FSA 3.0 training sessions should normally include 
no more than 30 personnel in order to maximize the advantage of the small 
group experience.  Peer-led sessions are encouraged using the different 
facilitation guides delineated by rank. 
    a.  Training Audience.  FSA 3.0 training is strongly recommended for all 
uniformed Navy personnel and civilians or other service personnel assigned at 
Navy commands are encouraged to attend consistent with their mission 
requirements and command direction. 
    b.  Training Materials.  FSA 3.0 training materials (videos, Facilitator 
Guide and supporting material), the FSA 3.0 TTT course schedule, regional 
points of contact and additional resources are available for download at the 
COE FSA website at 
(https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Support-Services/21st-Century-Sailor/Culture-
of-Excellence/Full-Speed-Ahead/). 
 
7.  Documentation.  For commands documenting completion of FSA 3.0 training 
using FLTMPS, learning event completion form each module has a unique course 
identification number:  Full Speed Ahead (FSA) 3.0 Peer Level Training Module 
1 (FSA-3.0-M1), Full Speed Ahead (FSA) 3.0 Peer Level Training Module 2 (FSA-
3.0-M2), Full Speed Ahead (FSA) 3.0 Peer Level Training Module 3 (FSA-3.0-M3) 
and Full Speed Ahead (FSA) 3.0 Peer Level Training Module 4 (FSA-3.0-M4). 
 
8.  Assessment.  This should not be viewed as *one and done* training.   
Behavior change takes practice.  All commands are encouraged to take 
ownership of this training by assessing the knowledge and understanding of 
the topics discussed by Sailors and by making this training a part of day-to-
day conversations.  The measure of success of this training will be the 
extent to which Sailors remain engaged up and down the chain of command and 
continue the conversation among their peers about making good decisions, 
modeling signature behaviors and treating everyone with dignity and respect. 
 
9.  POC are CDR Tracy Less, who can be reached via e-mail at 
theresa.c.less(at)us.navy.mil and CM1 Bill Root, who can be reached 
via e-mail at william.e.root23(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
10.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
