CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 042004Z OCT 24 MID120001438797U 
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 208/24 
 
SUBJ/2024 ARMY-NAVY GAME SPIRIT SPOTS// 
 
POC/Ms. Crystal Deleon/CHINFO OI-32/TEL: (703) 614-9555/E-MAIL: 
CRYSTAL.G.DELEON.CIV(at)US.NAVY.MIL and Mr. Oscar Sosa/E-MAIL: 
OSCAR.L.SOSA.CIV(at)US.NAVY.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  This year's Army-Navy game is scheduled for Saturday, December 14, 
2024 at Northwest Stadium in Washington, D.C.  Army-Navy Spirit Spots are due 
NLT COB (1600 EST) Friday, November 22, 2024.  CBS Sports will televise the 
game and will once again accept "Go Navy, Beat Army" video spots from the 
Navy and Marine Corps.  CBS will consider spot submissions forwarded by the 
Navy Office of Information (CHINFO) for broadcast during the game. 
    a.  There is no guarantee CBS will use your video, however, if your video 
does not make it into the broadcast, it may still be played on video screens 
within the stadium during the game. Videos may also be aired in other CBS 
Sports and/or CBS Sports Network studio shows leading up to the Army-Navy 
game. 
    b.  CHINFO and Defense Media Activity (DMA) will push selected spirit 
spots to a variety of media outlets, flagship web, broadcast, and social 
media platforms prior to the game to help generate esprit de corps and as a 
way of highlighting our naval forces. 
 
2.  Requirements and best practices: 
    a.  All spirit spots must be submitted from a Navy or Marine Corps 
activity. 
    b.  Public release of spirit spots is not permitted until 14 December 
2024. 
    c.  Include the submitting command's name and location. 
    d.  Please submit a vertically shot version in addition to your 
traditional submission if you would like it also considered for @usnavy 
flagship platforms. 
    e.  We want videos to help connect the American public with their Navy 
through building human connections with Sailors via passion points and 
culture.  Successful videos will highlight one or more of the following: 
        (1) We are here to preserve the peace, respond in crisis, and win 
decisively in war. 
        (2)We deliver power for peace, but are always postured and ready to 
fight and win as part of the Joint Force and alongside our Allies and 
partners. 
        (3)Today and every day, nearly 100 ships and submarines are underway 
and the world's most advanced naval aircraft are patrolling the skies 
worldwide. Being there matters. 
        (4)America's Navy is flying, sailing, and operating everywhere 
international law allows...so everyone else can too. 
        (5)The Navy is comprised of passionate professionals and strong 
leaders. 
        (6)The Navy is representative of America in spirit and composition. 
        (7)Enthusiasm, humor, creativity, diversity, and motivation. 
        (8)The Navy provides unique experiences, challenges and adventures at 
sea and around the world. 
    f.  Please avoid the following: 
        (1) Use of naval or military jargon or acronyms. 
        (2) Group/command/formation shout outs in which a group is shouting a 
message (the audience will not understand what you are saying). 
        (3) Copyrighted material or music. 
        (4) Parodies of popular TV shows, movies, books, etc. - essentially 
any commercial media that someone else owns the rights to - cannot be used by 
CBS for broadcast. 
        (5) Sensitive material. 
        (6) Official or implied endorsements. 
        (7) Gratuitous violence. 
        (8) Potentially divisive language. 
    g.  Inclusion of Naval Academy graduates, unique locations, forward 
deployed locations, and underway scenes are good.  Highlighting new platforms 
and unique naval capabilities is also desirable. 
    h.  Be sure to include all metadata required for Navy visual information 
products. 
    i.  It is best to not use music in your production. If you do, be sure to 
include all licensing information that allows you to use it and allows CBS to 
broadcast it to a global audience. Also, be sure to provide the final product 
with split channel audio with the music on its own track in case CBS has to 
remove it. 
    j.  Spots should be broadcast quality in one of the following file 
formats: 
        (1) Files should be at least 8 MB/S but no more than 100 MB/S and in 
MXF, MPEG, WMV, MP4, MOV, or AVI file formats. 
        (2) M4V, FLY, and SWF files are not accepted. 
        (3) Include a Word document with the submitter's points of contact, a 
suggested title, description, and release authority. 
        (4) All submissions must be high definition (1920x1080, 1280x720) or 
Ultra-High Definition (4k). 
   k.  If you want your video considered for CBS broadcast, it must be no 
longer than 29 seconds.  Spots intended for non-broadcast use in the stadium 
or on social media or other web only outlets should be no longer than two 
minutes; but preferably also no longer than 30 seconds. 
   l.  Submit only ready-to-air spots.  Neither CBS nor CHINFO will do your 
post production editing. 
   m.  Frame shots according to rules of good composition and avoid 
distracting backgrounds and inadvertent commercial product placement. 
   n.  Good audio quality and sharp focus are both important.  Videos with 
poor sound quality or that are not in focus will be rejected. 
 
3.  Leverage Public Affairs experts, support from Navy Public Affairs Support 
Elements, DMA detachments or broadcast detachments as mission requirements 
allow. 
 
4.  Contact CHINFO OI-32 at NavySM(at)us.navy.mil with the subject line "Army 
-Navy Submission" for submission instructions. 
    a.  Commands should submit videos by electronic means. Submissions must 
be received NLT COB (1600 EST) Friday, 22 NOV 2024.  Late submissions will 
not be accepted. 
    b.  Please DO NOT post submissions to DVIDS. Videos on DVIDS are public 
upon upload which would render the video(s) ineligible for use by CBS. 
 
5.  Request widest possible dissemination of this message.  Let's highlight 
Navy teamwork and the spirit of our Sailors and Marines forward deployed 
around the world.  Go Navy, Beat Army! 
 
6.  Released by RDML R. M. Perry, Chief of Information. 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
