CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 281420Z JAN 25 MID180001577235U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 019/25
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2026 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17//
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/02MAY19//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVCRUITCOM/20JUL22//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.   
REF C IS PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 150A, SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 NUCLEAR OPTION 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAM.   
REF D IS COMNAVCRUITCOMINST 1130.8M, NAVY RECRUITING MANUAL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
Fiscal Year (FY) 2026 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) Commissioning Program.  
STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program open 
to enlisted personnel of all pay grades and ratings who meet the eligibility 
requirements specified in reference (a).

2.  Applicants stationed outside the United States at any time between 1 
February 2024 and 30 June 2025 or those who were deployed at any time between 
1 February 2024 and 30 June 2025 may apply without a valid Scholastic 
Aptitude Test (SAT) or American College Test (ACT), if they meet the 
requirements detailed in paragraph (8h) of this NAVADMIN.  The SAT or ACT 
application requirement is also waived for all STA-21 Nuclear option (STA-
21(N)) applicants; however, the SAT or ACT is strongly encouraged for STA-
21(N) applicants who wish to strengthen their academic record.
Supplemental information for applicant submission is provided in paragraphs 
(8g) and (8h) of this NAVADMIN.

3.  The deadline for submission of applications for the FY26 STA-21 Program 
is 1 July 2025, and application packages must be postmarked on or before this 
date.  It is recommended that applications be submitted prior to the deadline 
as early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor regarding missing or 
illegible documents.
Additional documentation must be postmarked on or before 24 July 2025; any 
submissions after this date will not be accepted.  The selection board is 
scheduled to convene in August 2025 and selectees will be announced via 
NAVADMIN message.

4.  The core program and the following target options are open for 
application for the FY26 selection board:  Surface Warfare Officer (SWO), SWO 
Engineering Duty Option SWO (ED), Nuclear (Surface and Submarine), Special 
Warfare, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, Aviator, Civil 
Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps, and Information Professional.

5.  The following target options have zero select opportunities for
FY26:  Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical Corps, 
Supply Corps, Oceanography Officer (OCEANO), and SWO (OCEANO).

6.  The Nuclear (Surface and Submarine) target option is now open to Sailors 
who are serving in the Fleet and hold an active nuclear Navy Enlisted 
Classification (NEC) (N1XO, N1XS, N2XO, N2XS) and to those Sailors who are in 
the nuclear training pipeline with the N91T NEC.
Applicants holding a nuclear NEC must receive a conditional release from the 
Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D), in line with reference (b), 
if applying for an option outside the nuclear community.  All applicants for 
STA-21(N) must be able to begin their first day of class in the first 
semester of their coursework prior to reaching eight years of service.  See 
paragraph (9) of this NAVADMIN for additional requirements for non-nuclear 
trained Sailors applying for the Nuclear (Surface and Submarine) target 
options.
Reference (c) provides specific information and all other requirements to 
apply for the STA-21(N) program.

7.  The following additional information is relevant to FY26 STA-21 (non-
Nuclear option) applications:
    a.  If a Physical Fitness Assessment (PFA) was not performed within the 
last year, the Commanding Officer (CO) will provide an affirmative statement 
in their endorsement certifying the applicant is within Navy PFA height and 
weight requirements.
    b.  See paragraph (8h) of this NAVADMIN for standardized test score 
requirements.  Candidates are advised to verify school admission 
requirements, as the STA-21(N) SAT or ACT waiver does not supersede 
university admission requirements.
    c.  The Joint Service Transcript (JST), in line with reference (a), 
enclosure (1), chapter 8, paragraph 6.b(9), does not need to be submitted 
with this application.  A future revision of reference (a) will remove this 
requirement.
    d.  The applicant's photograph, in line with reference (a), is no longer 
required for this application.  A future revision of reference (a) will 
remove this requirement.

8.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the
FY25 STA-21 (non-Nuclear option) selection process and board.  This 
information is provided to preclude common errors:
    a.  Of the 476 applications received for FY25, 455 were board eligible.  
A total of 79 Sailors were selected to participate in the
FY25 STA-21 Program.
    b.  Each year, application packages are not considered due to non-
qualifying SAT or ACT scores, missing the CO's endorsement or 
recommendations, recent Non-Judicial Punishment, missing PFA cycles, missing 
or illegible documents, and not meeting program age or Navy PFA height and 
weight requirements.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.
    d.  The CO's endorsement is extremely important, especially their ranking 
of the applicant among their peers.  The endorsement should contain specifics 
about the individual's academic potential, commitment, leadership, service 
above self, and potential as a Naval officer.  CO comments should specify the 
primary option to which the individual is applying and address how the 
individual meets the qualifications for that option.  For junior Sailors with 
only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in their 
endorsement.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board will be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  Officer interview boards will consist of three 
officers, and the applicant's CO may not be a board member and should not 
submit an interview appraisal sheet.  It is recommended that officers of the 
applicant's designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in 
the interview and nomination review board to assess the applicant for their 
community.
Officer appraisals provide important insight into the applicant.
The appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
applicant's leadership and academic potential.  The CO's personal interview 
should be conducted only after the application is complete and the officer 
interview board has submitted their appraisals.  The full picture of an 
applicant's academic and officer potential can only be determined by 
reviewing the SAT or ACT scores (if required), high school or college 
transcripts, and a completed application package.  Appraisal forms should be 
typed in 10 or 12- point font.
    f.  The STA-21 applicant's personal statement should address why the 
Sailor wants to become an officer, how the Sailor's selection would improve 
the Navy, and why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must 
also address any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  
Junior Sailors should provide information on high school experiences, as high 
school transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in 
sports, clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should 
address any anomalies in the package (e.g., poor high school grades, college 
grades, service school grades, or poor evaluation performance).  This 
explanation should include details of the situation, how the applicant has 
overcome these issues, and why the applicant will be successful in the 
future.
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant; therefore it is 
important that the applicant review their package in its entirety before 
submission.  Check for misspelled words and improper grammar.  Ensure all 
high school and college transcripts are enclosed.  Applicants must submit 
results from the last PFA completed including overall score.  Applicants who 
have not taken the PFA within the past year and meet the exception criteria, 
in line with reference (a), must have a CO's endorsement, including a 
statement verifying the applicant is currently within Navy PFA height and 
weight standards.
    h.  Qualifying SAT or ACT scores are required for all non- nuclear 
officer candidates, except as noted in paragraph (1) of this NAVADMIN.  
Qualifying SAT or ACT scores are not required for all nuclear officer 
candidates; however, the SAT or ACT is strongly encouraged for STA-21(N) 
applicants who wish to strengthen their academic record.  Applications can 
still be submitted pending receipt of SAT or ACT scores or with a command 
statement indicating non-availability for overseas locations and deployed 
units.  The SAT or ACT scores submitted can be from exams taken between 1 
July 2020 and 1 July 2025.  Applicants without SAT or ACT scores and who meet 
the exception criteria must ensure their high school cumulative Grade Point 
Average (GPA) (minimum 2.5 GPA) is dated within the last five years or have a 
minimum 2.5 cumulative college GPA on a 4.0 scale with 12 or more semester 
hours.
     i.  It is recommended the command retain a copy of the entire 
application package.  The command portion of the application (such as command 
endorsement and interview appraisal sheets) should not be shared with the 
applicant.

9.  FY26 STA-21(N) applicants should be aware of the following application 
requirement modifications that are only relevant for Sailors applying to the 
nuclear option.  These modifications have been made in an effort to reduce 
administrative requirements for applicants and will be incorporated into a 
future revision of reference (a).  All waivers will be adjudicated on a case-
by-case basis.  All waivers must be clearly identified and formally endorsed 
by the Sailor's CO as part of the Sailor's STA-21(N) application.
    a.  JST transcripts are not required for STA-21(N) applicants.
    b.  Applicants are required to apply to three STA-21(N) program- approved 
universities prior to the STA-21(N) application deadline.
If an applicant's desired university is not accepting applications prior to 
the STA-21(N) application deadline, the applicant shall include both 
documentation for those applications already submitted and notice of their 
intention to apply to their preferred university in their STA-21(N) 
application package.
    c.  The following universities have zero select opportunities for FY26:  
Columbia University and Southern University and A&M College.
    d.  Interviews (command and nominative boards) are not required for STA-
21(N) applicants, nor are they required to submit officer interview sheets.
    e.  Non-nuclear trained Sailors are welcome to apply to STA- 21(N), but 
must submit a Electronic Personnel Action Request (NAVPERS 1306/7), to their 
community manager requesting conditional release from their community, in 
line with their community practices.  They must include in their application 
package the approved conditional release letter received from their community 
manager.  Application packages must be screened by the Nuclear Accessions 
Director of Navy Recruiting Command (NRC) and the finalized nuclear field 
eligibility worksheet must be included in the application package.  If 
applicants have any questions about this process, contact OPNAV N133D at 
bullnuke@navy.mil.  Non-nuclear trained Sailors must meet the requirements of 
nuclear field duty as specified in Chapter 5 of reference (d).  Those 
requirements not met for nuclear field duty require a waiver with NRC 
concurrence.  These requirements include, but are not limited to, Armed 
Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, foreign citizenship, and security 
clearance.
    f.  CO Letter of Recommendation.  A CO's letter of recommendation must be 
included in an applicant's package.  It is encouraged that the CO's letter 
endorse a Sailor based upon their mental aptitude, leadership, and ability to 
manage adversity.  COs are encouraged to provide supplemental context into 
their ranking methodology and ranking philosophy.  Commands with "one of one"
Sailors are reviewed with the same regard as commands with multiple Sailors 
applying.  COs should rank their STA-21(N) applicants in a separate group 
than non-nuclear STA-21 applicants within their command.
    g.  STA-21(N) applicants are not required to submit the personal 
statement listed in paragraph (8f) and instead must submit three personal 
statements, each not to exceed 300 words, in response to the following 
questions:
        (1) What actions have you taken to prepare for the STA-21(N) program, 
and how do these actions set you apart from other applicants? (Provide 
specific endeavors/activities that make you
competitive.)
        (2) How do you assess your readiness to academically manage a 
technically rigorous and compressed college level course load?
(Highlight academic success, but also explain any previous academic 
shortfalls and provide evidence that you've overcome them.)
        (3) STA-21(N) is an education and commissioning opportunity that will 
challenge you morally, mentally, and physically.  How do you assess your 
resiliency in successfully navigating the adversity and mental stresses 
expected in this program?  (Explain your Warrior Ethos and provide any 
personal challenges or shortcomings that have made you more resilient.)

10.  The following lessons learned are provided to STA-21(N) applicants based 
on the FY25 STA-21(N) selection process and board.
This information is provided to ensure applicants highlight their 
accomplishments and present a competitive package.
    a.  The most competitive applicants have strong academic performance in 
high school, college, or the nuclear training pipeline.  If an applicant does 
not have a history of strong academic performance, they should provide 
evidence of improved technical rigor and academic readiness through some 
other means, such as SAT or ACT scores, or additional college level courses 
in technical subjects (e.g., calculus, physics, etc.).  Strong performance in 
the Fleet or advanced qualifications are not a substitute for academic 
performance; Fleet Sailors without an exceptional academic record are 
strongly encouraged to take the SAT or ACT in order to demonstrate their 
academic aptitude and potential.
    b.  Sailors are encouraged to be forthright in addressing reasons for 
poor academic performance or disenrollment from an academic institution.  
This is best accomplished with an explanation of lessons learned or actions 
taken to address their weaknesses since the event occurred.
    c.  Letters of recommendation are encouraged and should provide further 
evidence of a Sailor's ability to complete a rigorous technical degree or 
other efforts a Sailor has taken to strengthen their application.

11.  The preferred method of delivery for applications is through mail.  If 
mail delivery is not possible, contact the Naval Service Training Command 
STA-21 Program Office (N92 STA-21) at grlk_sta21@us.navy.mil for alternative 
delivery methods.  Mail completed applications to: 

Naval Service Training Command
ATTN:  N92 STA-21
320A Dewey Ave Building 3, Room 106
Great Lakes, IL 60088-2845

12.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements, and selection procedures, Sailors should refer to reference 
(a), contact your command career counselor, or visit the STA-21 website at:
https://www.netc.navy.mil/Commands/Naval-Service-Training-Command/STA-21/STA-
21-program/ for the most up-to-date information.

13.  The point of contact for STA-21 is Naval Service Training Command, N92 
STA-21, (847) 688-5454 ext. 242 or 243/DSN 792 or grlk_sta21@us.navy.mil.  
The point of contact for the STA-21(N) Program Office is the Nuclear Enlisted 
Community Manager, OPNAV N133D, (703) 604-5491/DSN 664 or bullnuke@navy.mil.

14.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

