CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 141947Z AUG 23 MID120000370616U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 188/23

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/AUG//

SUBJ/VCNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET//

RMKS/1.  Team Navy:  As Vice Chief of Naval Operations, I am now performing 
the duties of the Chief of Naval Operations until the 33rd CNO is appointed, 
in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 8035.
With the challenges we face as a Navy and as a Nation, I do so with a sense 
of urgency and a keen eye on what is necessary to ensure our Navy remains the 
world's preeminent fighting force.

2.  The work of our Navy continues undisrupted and unabated.
We continue to operate our ships, submarines, and aircraft at the point of 
friction with our competitors, and at the point of friendship with our allies 
and partners.  Our Navy is deployed around the world and around the clock, 
providing options to our Nation's decision makers in competition, crisis, and 
conflict.  We sustain forward-deployed lethal forces that enhance the peace 
and deter our adversaries.  We are ready to fight and win today if called.

3.  Our adversaries recognize that we are the world's most powerful Navy.  
Together with the Joint Force, let us assure our allies and partners that 
they have no more trusted friend.
And let us inspire confidence in our fellow Americans that their Navy has the 
watch.

4.  In our ongoing effort to strengthen warfighters, improve warfighting, and 
ready the platforms that support them, our way ahead is clear and our course 
is true.  We will continue our Navy-wide culture renovation, where Get Real 
Get Better is the standard of leadership and problem-solving that leaders at 
all levels embrace and live.  We are building teams that are self-assessing, 
self-correcting, and always learning toward one goal - delivering warfighting 
advantage.  Similarly, we have commenced a once-in-a-generation 
transformation of our Navy in order to develop, design, and deploy the 
weapons and tools we need to compete and win, both now and in the future.
In this decisive decade, we will maintain this course and increase our speed.

5.  During this leadership transition, our core identity as Sailors remains 
unchanged.  We are forged by the sea and connected to each other through our 
core values of honor, courage, and commitment.  Alongside our Navy civilians 
and Defense Industrial Base partners, we are a team of professionals.  We are 
steadfast in our dedication to our mission and our shipmates.

6.  I am proud to serve beside you and will rely on your continued commitment 
to our Navy and our Constitution.  Thank you for what you do, and please pass 
my thanks to your families and support networks for what they do to keep us 
ready - every day - to fight and win against any adversary, any time.

7.  Following four years of honorable and faithful service as our 32nd CNO, 
we express our gratitude to Admiral Mike Gilday for his transformational 
leadership of our Navy at the outset of this decisive decade.
As he concludes an exceptional 38-year career, we join together to wish him, 
his wife Linda, and their family "fair winds and following seas."

8.  All current orders and directives issued by the 32nd CNO remain in 
effect.

9.  Released by Admiral Lisa M. Franchetti, performing the duties of Chief of 
Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

