UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 171541Z APR 20 MID110000590554U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 113/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N00/APR//

SUBJ/RESTRICTION OF MOVEMENT (ROM) GUIDANCE UPDATE//

REF/A/DOC/USD/11MAR20//
REF/B/NAVADMIN/CNO/212007ZMAR20//
REF/C/DOC/BUMED/17MAR20//
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/31MAR20//
REF/E/NAVADMIN/CNO/231957ZMAR20//
REF/F/NAVADMIN/CNO/051456ZAPR20//

NARR/REF A IS UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMO, FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION 
GUIDANCE (SUPPLEMENT 4) - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE GUIDANCE FOR PERSONNEL TRAVEL 
DURING THE NOVEL CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 080/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS 
OUTBREAK UPDATE 3.
REF C IS BUMED RETURN TO WORK GUIDELINES FOR CORONAVIRUS. 
REF D IS DCNO (N1) MEMO FOR HARDSHIP DUTY PAY RESTRICTION OF MOVEMENT. 
REF E IS NAVADMIN 083/20, RESTRICTION OF MOVEMENT GUIDANCE. 
REF F IS NAVADMIN 100/20, NAVY GUIDANCE ON THE USE OF FACE COVERINGS.//

RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN supersedes REF E and acknowledges that operational unit 
commanders may have to execute a Restriction of Movement (ROM) period prior 
to introducing new members to the crew or prior to taking a unit overseas or 
underway. It also designates additional responsibilities for Transient 
Personnel Unit (TPU) Commanding Officers and clarifies use of Hardship Duty 
Pay (HDP)-ROM as a source of funding for ROM. REF A requires personnel 
returning from a Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel 
Health Notice (THN) Level 3 or Level 2 location perform a 14-day ROM. During 
ROM, Service Members should be restricted to their residence or other 
appropriate domicile and limit close contact (within 6 feet or 2 meters) with 
others. This NAVADMIN clarifies the definition of ROM, provides amplifying 
guidance, and delineates responsibilities for execution of ROM.

2. Definitions.

2.a. Restriction of Movement (ROM). General DoD term referring to the 
limitation of personal liberty for the purpose of ensuring health, safety and 
welfare. ROM is inclusive of Quarantine, Isolation and Sequester.

2.a.(1) Quarantine. Medical term referring to the separation of personnel 
from others as a result of suspected exposure to a communicable disease. For 
the world-wide COVID-19 epidemic, this should be imposed on those with no 
COVID-19 symptoms who have either recently returned from a high-risk location 
(CDC THN Level 2 or 3), or have had close contact with a known COVID-19 
positive patient. The current recommended Quarantine period is 14 days. Per 
CDC, Quarantine generally means the separation of a person or group of people 
reasonably believed to have been exposed to a communicable disease but not 
yet symptomatic, from others who have not been so exposed, to prevent the 
possible spread of the communicable disease.

2.a.(2) Isolation. Medical term referring to the separation of personnel from 
others due either to the development of potential COVID-19 symptoms or as a 
result of a positive COVID-19 test. Per CDC, Isolation means the separation 
of a person or group of people known or reasonably believed to be infected 
with a communicable disease and potentially infectious from those who are not 
infected to prevent spread of the communicable disease. Isolation for public 
health purposes may be voluntary or compelled by federal, state, or local 
public health order.

2.a.(3) Sequester. Term used to describe isolating forces to remove or reduce 
risk of infection degrading a unit.

2.a.(3)A. Mission Assurance. Isolate forces committed to certain key missions 
to remove risk of infection inhibiting mission execution.

2.a.(3)B. Pre-Movement Sequester.  Action taken by an operational commander 
to reduce risk of introducing a COVID-19 positive, asymptomatic Service 
Member to a unit by instituting a 14-day ROM period for the Service Members 
within the unit. This action may be taken for all personnel assigned to a 
unit prior to deploying, getting underway, or conducting operations. A member 
of the unit or newly reported member of the unit who has traveled from or 
through an area where COVID-19 community transmission is widespread or is 
suspected of having been exposed to COVID-19 should be placed in Quarantine 
or Isolation and not Sequester.

2.a.(4) Bubble. Term used to describe personnel, units or installations 
regarded as having a low probability of COVID-19 infection. A ship that has 
been underway for greater than 14 days without any COVID-19 positive 
personnel would be considered to be a Bubble.

2.a.(5) Bubble-to-bubble Transfer. Term used to describe movement of units or 
personnel from one location to another utilizing controlled means such as 
military air, government ground transportation or sealift to minimize 
introduction of COVID-19 to the protected population. Bubble-to-bubble 
Transfers cannot be executed with commercial air, sea or ground 
transportation.

2.b. Patient (or Person) Under Investigation (PUI). In the case of COVID-19, 
a PUI is defined as an individual with either a pending COVID-19 test or for 
whom a test should be ordered or conducted (medically indicated).

2.c. Self-monitoring. Per CDC, Self-monitoring means people should monitor 
themselves for fever by taking their temperatures twice a day and remaining 
alert for the onset of a cough or difficulty breathing. If an individual 
feels feverish or develops a measured fever, cough, or difficulty breathing 
during the Self-monitoring period, they should self-isolate, limit contact 
with others, and seek advice by telephone from a healthcare provider or their 
local health department to determine whether further medical evaluation is 
needed.

2.d. Close Contact. Per CDC, a Close Contact is defined as:

2.d.(1) Being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters) of a COVID-19 positive 
individual for a prolonged period of time; the current recommended threshold 
is 10 minutes. Close Contact can occur while caring for, living with, 
visiting, or sharing a healthcare waiting area or room with a COVID-19 case.

2.d.(2) Having direct contact with infectious secretions of a COVID-19 case 
(e.g., being coughed on).

2.e. Force Enclave. A designated location or installation augmented with 
essential supplies, personnel and medical resources sufficient to provide 
sustainment for Fleet surface and subsurface operations, Quarantine, and/or 
supportive care for sick personnel in Isolation. U.S. territory is the 
preferred site for a Force Enclave.

3. Applicability. ROM applies to all Service Members, who in the last 14 days 
have either been in:

3.a. An area with ongoing spread of COVID-19 as defined as CDC designated 
Level 2 and 3 countries (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-
ncov/travelers/map-and-travel-notices.html),

3.b. A domestic location with widespread community transmission rate of 
COVID-19 as designated by the CDC (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-
ncov/cases-updates/cases-in-us.html),

3.c. Close Contact with a person known to have COVID-19.

3.d. Per REF A, it is strongly recommended that DoD civilian employees, DoD 
contractor personnel and dependents also follow this guidance.

4. Guidance.

4.a. ROM personnel shall be directed to remain at home or in a comparable 
setting for 14 days (ROM) from the day of departure or contact. For transient 
personnel and those residing in close quarters such as unaccompanied housing 
or ships, temporary lodging meeting CDC guidance of separate sleeping and 
bathroom facilities shall be arranged, when available. It is possible that 
units executing Pre-movement Sequester will be assigned rooms that do not 
meet CDC guidance due to the large volume of rooms required.

4.b. When in ROM, personnel shall avoid congregate settings, limit Close 
Contact with people and pets or other animals to the greatest extent 
possible, avoid traveling, Self-monitor, and seek immediate medical care if 
symptoms (e.g., cough or shortness of breath) develop.

4.c. Personnel assigned ROM may exit quarters to access laundry facilities, 
outdoor exercise, designated smoking areas; and conduct other essential tasks 
not in a public setting provided they maintain social distancing greater than 
6 feet (2 meters) from others. Access to messing facilities, stores, fitness 
centers and other widely used support services is prohibited.

4.d. For temporary lodging, normal room cleaning services will be suspended 
during the ROM period.

4.e. For personnel executing ROM in a private residence, coordinate with 
parent command for the purchase of required food/hygiene items or arrange 
delivery through other means.

4.f. After completion of ROM, return to work per REF C and Combatant 
Commander guidance, if applicable.

4.g. Should personnel in Quarantine or Sequester status test positive for 
COVID -19, the person is now considered in Isolation and should further 
restrict movement beyond what is listed in 4.c., exiting quarters to execute 
only absolutely essential tasks. In the event a person was in a Sequester 
status, ensure that accommodations meet CDC guidelines for Isolation and 
follow any additional guidance provided by medical professionals.

5. Responsibilities.

5.a. Parent command Commanding Officer/Officer in Charge shall:

5.a.(1) Ensure ROM screening of personnel. If a Bubble-to-bubble Transfer has 
not occurred, execute Sequester prior to introducing personnel into unit 
settings including classroom instruction.

5.a.(2) Ensure ROM personnel comply with paragraph 4.

5.a.(3) If temporary lodging is required:

5.a.(3)A. Provide written orders for ROM personnel. Orders will direct the 
Service Member to a ROM status and not TAD to the host installation. If no-
cost lodging is not available, Service Members directed to Quarantine or 
Isolation per 2.a.(1) and 2.a.(2) may be eligible for HDP-ROM per REF D if 
they incur unreimbursed lodging costs. The preferred temporary lodging is 
NGIS. If executing a Pre-movement Sequester per 2.a.(3)for an entire unit or 
portion of a unit, and no-cost lodging is not available, units should 
consider use of O&M funding to contract for lodging. Units should contact the 
type commander for funding. This may be accomplished utilizing a General 
Terms and Conditions (GT&C) document to avoid issues arising from Service 
Members without government travel cards. Per REF D, members in Pre-movement 
Sequester are not eligible for HDP-ROM.

5.a.(3)B. Coordinate with installation Commanding Officer for room 
assignment.
It is imperative that tenant commands inform installations of all personnel 
in ROM status within government facilities (to include barracks, NGIS, Navy 
Lodge, PPV family housing, and PPV barracks).

5.a.(3)C. As needed, coordinate messing support with the Commanding Officer 
where a galley is available. Arrangements will be made between the parent 
command and the installation for the delivery of meals to Service Members in 
a ROM status.

5.a.(3)D. As required, provide daily support to ROM personnel to ensure meal 
delivery as well as health and comfort checks.

5.a.(3)E. Ensure personnel supporting individuals in ROM status are trained 
on ROM requirements and associated interaction protocols. Close Contact is 
prohibited. PPE is not required.

5.a.(3)F. If private residence is utilized, coordinate with ROM personnel to 
ensure messing needs are met.

5.b. Installation Commanding Officers shall:

5.b.(1) Account daily for available temporary lodging to support ROM.

5.b.(2) Track ROM personnel residing in Navy Lodging (unaccompanied housing, 
NGIS, Navy Lodge, PPV family housing, PPV barracks) both on and off 
installation. There is no need for installations to track tenant personnel in 
ROM status in private residence/lodging.

5.b.(3) Provide detailed instructions to tenant commands who require 
temporary ROM lodging support.

5.b.(4) If available, coordinate with parent commands to provide take-out 
meals for delivery to ROM personnel.

5.b.(5) Ensure temporary lodging staff are trained on ROM requirements and 
associated interaction protocols. Close Contact is prohibited. PPE is not 
required.

5.b.(6) Follow CDC guidance for cleaning rooms following the ROM period. 
Ensure the standards are the same across all facilities (unaccompanied 
housing, NGIS, Navy Lodge).

5.b.(7) For the safety of lodging personnel, ensure clear discrete procedures 
are in place to identify rooms which are occupied by ROM personnel.

5.b.(8) Ensure fire and emergency services are aware of ROM personnel 
locations, particularly those in Isolation, and are prepared to respond to 
medical emergencies with appropriate PPE.

5.c. Transient Personnel Unit (TPU) Commanding Officers shall:

5.c.(1) Contact operational commanders prior to sending Further Fleet 
Transfer
(FFT) personnel to gaining units to determine if Sequester is required.

5.c.(2) If Quarantine or Isolation is required, obtain request from the 
gaining Commanding Officer to execute Isolation/Quarantine and order FFT 
personnel into ROM status for 14 days. If no-cost lodging is unavailable, 
Service Member may be eligible for HDP-ROM per REF D if they incur 
unreimbursed lodging costs. If Sequester is required and no-cost lodging is 
required, O&M funding should be used to contract for lodging.

5.c.(3) For operational units less than 14 days from return to homeport 
(RTHP), Sequester will not be executed by TPU unless the entire unit will 
execute Mission Assurance Sequester upon return.

6. Entitlements. Per REF B.

7. Reporting Requirements. Per REF B.

8. ROM FAQs.

Question 1. When placed on Restriction of Movement (ROM), can I travel to 
locations within the fence line of an installation to utilize facilities such 
as the NEX food court or the gym?
Answer 1. No, during the duration of ROM, Service Members must remain in 
their rooms with the exception of brief trips to utilize designated smoking 
areas, walking in the immediate vicinity of the building (usually within 100 
feet), and limiting close contact (within 6 feet) with others. If your 
facility contains an in house gym, do not use it.

Question 2. Can I accept food deliveries from various services?

Answer 2. Yes, food must be placed outside the room. Minimize Close Contact 
(within 6 feet).

Question 3. Can my family or friends visit me?

Answer 3. Yes, provided they do not enter your room. Conversations should be 
held with visitors staying in the passageway outside the room and Service 
Members in their room. Minimize Close Contact (within 6 feet).

Question 4. Can I do my laundry?

Answer 4. Yes, but you should coordinate with your command to utilize in 
house laundry facilities.

Question 5. How do I obtain personal hygiene items?

Answer 5. Utilize the point of contact provided by your command to arrange 
for purchase of these items.

Question 6. Will my room be cleaned daily?

Answer 6. No, your room will not be cleaned during your stay. Trash pickup is 
available by placing your trash can in the passageway.

Question 7. Is Personal Protective Equipment required for personnel in my 
Vicinity?

Answer 7. No, unless required by other directives (such as REF F). You should 
limit Close Contact (within 6 feet) with others.

Question 8. Can I ROM in open bay barracks or in rooms with shared bathrooms?

Answer 8. Not preferred, individuals should be placed in separate lodging 
(when available). Personnel shall not execute Isolation in rooms with shared 
bathrooms.

Question 9. Can I use public transportation if in ROM status?

Answer 9. No, individuals on ROM should avoid crowds and public locations.

Question 10. Can I get off ROM early if I was in Close Contact to a person 
with COVID-19, and I feel like I am not sick?

Answer 10. No, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommends 14 days of 
ROM from the last date of exposure to a COVID-19 positive person.

Question 11. What is the difference between Quarantine and Restriction of 
Movement (ROM)?
Answer 11. Quarantine is a legal public health term used for civilian 
restrictions and ROM is a military term being used to identify military 
individuals who are restricted in their movement, generally to their 
residence.

Question 12. Are my family members at risk if I ROM at home with them?

Answer 12. ROM status is a precautionary step to prevent spread to others.
Considering this, it is recommended that while at home in a ROM status, you 
practice social distancing. This means try to remain at least 6 feet from 
other persons, avoid using the same bathroom, or sleeping in the same bed.

Question 13. Can I prepare meals for my family while on ROM?

Answer 13. When in a ROM status, it is recommended you not prepare meals for 
your family because the virus is spread through respiratory droplets that can 
land on surfaces such as food. Ideally, you should have other individuals 
prepare food. If you are the only care giver, make sure you are washing your 
hands with soap and water for 20 seconds for general food safety. Make sure 
you cover your nose and mouth when coughing and wash your hands after using 
the bathroom.

Question 14. Should I be wearing a mask?

Answer 14. Yes. Per REF F, all individuals on DoD property, installations and 
facilities are required to wear cloth face coverings when they cannot 
maintain the required six feet of physical distance. Face coverings are not 
intended to provide respiratory protection for the wearer; rather face 
coverings lessen the spread of the virus by asymptomatic (i.e. unknowing) but 
infected persons.

Question 15. Do I need to clean my house to CDC standards?

Answer 15. It is recommended you maintain a clean living environment as you 
normally would. This includes frequent hand washing, washing clothing and 
bedding, and wiping down frequently touched surfaces with a sanitizing wipe 
or any cleaning product that contains at least 10 percent bleach. The 
Environmental Protection Agency has a list of products that have been 
specifically tested as effective in sanitizing surfaces.

Question 16. Can I discontinue ROM if I have a negative COVID-19 test?

Answer 16. No. Per REF C, the full 14 day ROM must be executed. Numerous 
cases have occurred where a person tested negative only to be positive a few 
days later without changing their environment. It is necessary to allow the 
full two weeks to ensure that asymptomatic personnel do not potentially 
spread the virus.

9. Released by Vice Admiral M. M. Jackson, Commander, Navy Installations 
Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

