UNCLASSIFIED//
CORRECTED COPY  
ROUTINE
R 301621Z JUN 20 MID510001361809U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 185/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/JUN//

SUBJ/CNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET//

RMKS/1.  As we head into a well-deserved holiday weekend celebrating our 
nations independence, I want to convey how proud I am of our collective 
resilience and grit during this challenging time and stress the importance of 
remaining vigilant in our long-term battle against COVID.

2.  Together, we have impressively adapted and maintained our edge in 
confronting the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic.  Sustaining that hard-earned 
readiness is now dependent on each of us holding steadfast to the procedures, 
protocols and policies that keep COVID out of our commands.  Especially this 
weekend, each of us will be faced with temptations to cut corners and return 
to the old normal.

3.  Do not do it.  The health and safety of our Sailors and families is my 
number one priority.  Do not compromise yourself, your family or your friends 
and become the source of COVID at your command.  We must protect family and 
shipmates from this virus with the same intensity that we protect them from 
any adversary, with focus and conviction.  We will remain socially distant, 
wash hands, wear face coverings, and avoid large groups.

4.  COVID is an insidious enemy, with roughly 35 percent of those acquiring 
COVID remaining asymptomatic.  A single, healthy-feeling individual can 
unwittingly spread the disease to many others.  COVID does not care how long 
it has been since you shook a hand, went to a bar, or hugged your 
grandparents.
It can and will continue to spread with reckless abandon unless we stay 
united in defensive action.  Together, we will rigorously maintain health 
protection measures to protect our Navy family and assure mission success 
even when it may appear the general public may be relaxing them.

5.  An additional important layer of defense against this disease, given that 
the only way to uncover asymptomatic individuals is through testing, is the 
Surveillance Sentinel Testing (SST) established by NAVADMIN 178/20.  SST 
tests a small percentage of our force routinely to help break the chain of 
transmission of COVID-19, increase awareness across our force and provide 
greater health protection mission assurance.

6.  I am extremely proud of the readiness we have maintained during these 
past few challenging months.  More than one-third of the Navy is currently 
forward deployed, spending longer times at-sea with fewer port visits.  These 
units, and many other ongoing examples of prioritizing service and country 
above self, demonstrate what makes us strong and a great Navy.  My deep and 
sustained thanks as we continue to define and operate in this new normal.

7.  Released by Admiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.
UNCLASSIFIED//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

