UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 051607Z AUG 20 MID510001567343U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 220/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/FY-21 JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERALS CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/JAG/25APR19//

AMPN/REF A IS PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 111A, JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERALS CORPS IN-
SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM (JAG-IPP)//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the Fiscal Year
(FY) 2021 Judge Advocate Generals Corps (JAGC) In-Service Procurement Program 
(IPP) Selection Board no earlier than February 2021.  The JAG-IPP provides 
outstanding, career-motivated enlisted personnel of all ratings, who meet the 
eligibility criteria, the opportunity to earn a commission in the JAGC.  The 
FY-21 board will accept applications for the funded legal education option 
(FLEO) and the direct commission option (DCO).

2.  This program is open to Active Duty enlisted Sailors and Navy Full-Time 
Support personnel in any rating or military occupational specialty in 
paygrades E-5 through E-7 at the time of the application.  DCO applicants 
must have served on active duty for a period of no less than 2 years and no 
more than 10 years at the time of commissioning.  FLEO applicants must have 
served on Active Duty for a period of no less than 4 years and no more than 8 
years at the time legal training begins.  Sailors of the individual ready 
reserve or serving on active duty for special work, active duty for training 
or on 1 to 3 year recalls are not eligible for this program.  FLEO applicants 
selected for the program must begin legal training no later than September 
2021 and prior to the eighth anniversary of their active duty commencement 
date.  Legal training in the program commences as of the date of reporting 
for duty under instruction at the unit to which the enlisted Sailor is 
assigned while attending law school.  The enlisted Sailor is not required to 
begin law school courses by this date.  All service requirements are 
statutory and cannot be waived.

3.  Reference (a) provides information on authorized program benefits, 
eligibility, obligated service and program requirements.  Where information 
differs between this NAVADMIN and reference (a), this NAVADMIN takes 
precedence.  The requirement in reference (a) for FLEO applicants to submit 
at least one law school acceptance letter with the application is replaced by 
the requirements in paragraph 6c below.  No other waivers of application 
requirements will be granted.

4.  Application procedures are provided in reference (a) and this NAVADMIN.  
Further program information can be found at 
http://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/opportunities_ipp.html.

5.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time they 
commission.  This requirement cannot be waived.

6.  Amplifying education information for the FY-21 board.
    a.  Law School Admission Test (LSAT) exam score reports are required for 
all applicants.  LSAT score reports may be submitted via separate 
correspondence after the deadline, but must be received by 15 January 2021.  
Website screenshots of LSAT scores will not be accepted.
    b.  All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited 
institution at the time of the application deadline.
Applicants must submit their official or unofficial transcripts for all 
degrees earned and a complete list of all schools attended.
    c.  Applicants applying to the FLEO must provide a prioritized list of 
U.S. law schools accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) to which 
the applicant has applied or plans to apply.  Applicants are encouraged to 
apply to more than one school.  Applicants must apply to at least one law 
school in which in-state tuition and fees can be obtained, one law school 
near the applicants current duty station and one law school located in a 
fleet concentration area (i.e., Norfolk, VA, Jacksonville/Mayport, FL, San 
Diego, CA, Pearl Harbor, HI, Bremerton, WA or Washington, D.C.).
Applicants must provide a copy of any acceptance letters received prior to 
the convening of the selection board.
    d.  Applicants applying for the DCO option must have obtained a law 
degree (juris doctor) from a law school considered by the ABA to be 
accredited under provisions established by the ABA at the time of their 
graduation from the law school.
    e.  Applicants for the DCO option must submit a letter or certificate of 
good standing from the licensing authority admitting the applicant to the 
practice of law before a federal court or the highest court of a state, a 
U.S. territory, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico or the District of Columbia.
    f.  All applicants must obtain a conditional release from their enlisted 
community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, an applicant must 
submit NAVPERS 1306/7 to their ECM or detailer as appropriate.  The FY-21 
JAGC IPP selection board will only consider enlisted candidates who have a 
conditional release included in their program application.

7.  Applicants must submit their application electronically via DoD SAFE 
(https://safe.apps.mil) to navyaccessions(at)navy.mil no later than 2359 EST 
Tuesday, 1 December 2020.  If an applicant requires an exception to the e-
submission policy due to operational restrictions, please contact 202-685-
8527 or navyaccessions(at)navy.mil prior to 20 November 2020.  LSAT score 
reports and law school acceptance letters may be submitted via separate 
correspondence after the deadline, but must be received by
15 January 2021.  No other additional or amplifying information will be 
accepted after the deadline.  Incomplete applications will not be reviewed by 
the board.

8.  In line with reference (a), prior to submitting a completed application, 
applicants are required to complete a structured interview with the JAGC.  
Structured interviews will be conducted in accordance with policy established 
by the JAG.  Instructions for scheduling a structured interview may be found 
at http://www.jag.navy.mil/careers_/careers/opportunities_ipp.html.
This requirement is separate from and in addition to, the command interview.

9.  Point of contact is the Office of the JAG Accessions Program Manager and 
can be reached at (202) 685-8527/DSN 325 or via e-mail at 
navyaccessions(at)navy.mil.

10.  This message is canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2021.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

