UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 081631Z FEB 21 MID600050233348U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 030/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/FY-22 ACTIVE-DUTY NAVY AND NAVY RESERVE E9, E8 AND E7 SELECTION BOARD 
MEMBERSHIP NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/29APR20//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5C, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S.
NAVY SELECTION BOARDS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of enlisted selection board 
participants for the FY-22 Active-Duty Navy and Navy Reserve Master Chief, 
Senior Chief and Chief Petty Officer Selection Boards.  The experience gained 
from exposure to the selection board process is beneficial to all senior 
enlisted leaders.  Every master chief petty officer, not otherwise restricted 
from participating in an enlisted selection board, is strongly encouraged to 
serve as a member on an FY-22 enlisted selection board.  In order to ensure 
our board membership requirements are met, immediate superior in command
(ISIC) and/or type commander (TYCOM) leadership is encouraged to seek out the 
best board member candidates within your purview and direct them to submit 
applications for the FY-22 enlisted selection boards.

2.  FY-22 enlisted board schedule (recorders report one week early for 
training):
    a.  Reserve/FTS E9/E8 (combined):  19 through 30 April 2021
    b.  Active-Duty E9/E8 (combined):  1 June through 2 July 2021
    c.  Reserve/FTS E7:  12 through 30 July 2021
    d.  Active-Duty E7:  9 August through 10 September 2021

3.  Due dates for member and recorder applications to be received by 
Selection Board Membership (PERS-805):
    a.  Reserve/FTS E9/E8 (combined):  15 February 2021
    b.  Active-Duty E9/E8(combined):  1 March 2021
    c.  Reserve/FTS E7:  12 April 2021
    d.  Active-Duty E7:  3 May 2021

4.  Prior to submitting an application, review reference (a) which can be 
found at:
    a.  Active: https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion/active-duty-enlisted
    b.  Reserve: https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion/reserve-officer

5.  In addition to membership criteria contained in reference (a) and on the 
Enlisted Selection Board Member/Recorder (NAVPERS 1400/2) application form, 
the following also applies to selection board
nominees:
    a.  Must not have a relative or personal relationship defined in 
reference (a) serving on the same board in any capacity.
    b.  All Navy relatives (Active Duty or Reserve) must be listed on the 
application form along with their rank/rate, even if not board eligible.
    c.  Must not have been a member of the same board in the previous year.
    d.  Must not be the subject of an investigation of any kind.
    e.  If under care for any severe medical issues, the member shall consult 
with a treating physician regarding the possibility of travel in the time 
frame indicated.  The medical provider is not required to endorse the members 
application.

6.  Additional information pertaining to selection board membership:
    a.  Frocked master chiefs may participate as selection board members and 
are encouraged to apply.
    b.  In select circumstances, Navy Personnel Command (NPC) may provide 
permanent change of station (PCS) order modifications if an applicant with 
PCS orders is selected to serve on an enlisted selection board.  Selected 
board members should contact PERS-805 at
(901) 874-3185/DSN 882 or via e-mail at pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil, if this 
applies.  Do not contact your detailer directly as they may be eligible 
before the board.
    c.  Sailors desiring to sit on a selection board who are attached to 
deployed units will not normally be approved.  In rare circumstances and 
driven by needs of the board, concurrence on the application from a fleet 
master chief is required.  Applicants who PCS to a deployable unit after 
having submitted an application should notify PERS-805.  If the unit is due 
to deploy during or close to the board date, applicants should request that 
their application be pulled.
    d.  Active Duty and Reserve component master chiefs are encouraged to 
apply for any of the above boards.  There are no restrictions preventing a 
Sailor of one component from serving on a board of the other.
    e.  Senior chief petty officers and chief petty officers (to include 
frocked) may serve as recorders on any of the above boards for which they are 
not eligible.
    f.  Senior chief petty officers may apply to be a board member on only E7 
boards.
    g.  Petty officers (E6 and below) may not serve on the boards in any 
capacity.
    h.  Recorders must be stationed CONUS, no exceptions.

7.  The application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) can be downloaded from
    a.  Active:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion/active-duty-enlisted
    b.  Reserve:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion/reserve-officer

8.  The signed application must be endorsed by the members commanding officer 
(CO) and forwarded directly to their cognizant force/fleet master chief 
(FORCM/FLTCM).  The FORCM/FLTCM will forward endorsed applications to PERS-
805 via e-mail at pers- 805.fct(at)navy.mil or will return the endorsed 
applications to the member for submission.  In circumstances where the 
applicant is assigned to a joint command or otherwise does not have a 
FORCM/FLTCM, the application should be sent to PERS-805 by the commands 
senior enlisted leader (SEL), provided the SEL is not eligible for 
advancement on the board for which the applicant is submitting.  If you are 
unsure of your circumstance, please contact PERS-805.

9.  Do not use request chits and do not forward applications through your 
commands administrative support personnel, including those of the command 
master chief (CMC), CO or those of your FORCM/FLTCM.
This will compromise board membership and invalidate your application.  
Applications go directly to the CMC.  Forms received from or routed through, 
individuals other than the applicant or the FORCM/FLTCM, except as specified 
in the previous paragraph, will not be considered.

10.  Board membership will be held in the strictest confidence.
Once an application is submitted, a policy of non-disclosure has been ordered 
by Deputy Chief of Navy Personnel (DCNP).  Do not discuss applications or 
selection, if chosen to serve on a board, with anyone other than the CO, 
reporting senior, CMC, chief of the boat, cognizant FORCM/FLTCM or board 
support personnel at NPC.  It is appropriate for a CMC to be told by a member 
in the command of that members board service.  However, the CMC may not 
disclose their own service on a board to anyone other than the CO or next 
echelon ISIC.  Failure to adhere to this policy is a direct violation of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice and will result in removal from the board 
and possible administrative or disciplinary action by DCNP.

11.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominees application and 
availability to serve as a selection board member.  CO concurrence is 
required.  Do not recommend personnel that are under an investigation of any 
kind or those with severe medical issues.
If the CO initiates or becomes aware of an investigation after the initial 
nomination is submitted, notify the points of contact below immediately.  
COs, CMCs and applicants should understand that once selected, the member is 
under official orders to the board and requests for removal from board duties 
will not be granted except in extreme cases as specified in reference (a).

12.  Points of contact:
     a.  Enlisted Board Membership Clerk at (901) 874-3185/DSN 882
     b.  Membership Branch Head at (901) 874-2209/DSN 882
     c.  pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil

13.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN


a
