UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 141714Z JAN 21 MID200000556262U

FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 08/21

SUBJ/ANNUAL CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FROM QUALIFIED NAVY PERSONNEL FOR THE
ADVANCED MILITARY VISUAL JOURNALISM TRAINING PROGRAM 2021// 
POC/MCCM Michael Lewis/CHINFO SEA/LOC: WASHINGTON DC/
TEL: COMM: (703) 692-4704/DSN: 222-4704//
EMAIL: michael.b.lewis3(at)navy.mil//

RMKS/1.  The Navy is soliciting applications from Mass Communication
Specialists (MC) for the Advanced Military Visual Journalism (AMVJ) training
program fore academic year 2021-2022.  The program offers two courses of
study:  Photojournalism (Course number S-400-2013) which earns NEC A08A and
Motion Media (Course number S-400-2014) which earns NEC A05A.  Class
reporting date for both courses is tentatively scheduled for 26 July 2021
with a projected graduation date of 5 May 2022.

2.  Applications must be submitted no later than 5 March 2020.  For complete
directions and guidance for electronic submission, contact POC listed above
and in paragraph 7.  Applications must include the following:
    a.  A command endorsement on letterhead summarizing the candidate's
qualifications, including a statement certifying the portfolio is the sole
work of the applicant and recommendation for candidate's acceptance in the
program.  Parent commands are responsible for eligibility verification forv
endorsed candidates and submission of applicable waivers.  Waivers of
prerequisites (e.g., TIS, PG, TOS, etc.) will be considered on a
case-by-case basis. Commanding Officers should address applicant's maturity,
ability to work independently, financial security, and academic ability when
recommending a nominee, particularly when requesting waivers.
    b.  An essay explaining why a candidate is interested in the AMVJ
program.  Essay should include motivations, influences, expectations, and
post    course desires.
    c.  A portfolio demonstrating sufficient technical ability to
successfully complete the course.  The portfolio requirements for the
AMVJ-Navy program closely mirror the portfolio  requirements for the Navy
Communicator of the Year award of the Russell Egnor Navy Media Awards. An
applicant must submit a portfolio with communication products from across
the full-spectrum of media disciplines. Candidates must submit a portfolio
consisting of eight examples of their work. Portfolio must contain the
following:
        (1) One writing product from the Individual Writing category.
        (2) Two video products from the Individual Video category.
        (3) Four photo products from the Individual Photo category (must
have one picture story and one portrait personality and two photos from the
any other Individual Photo category)
        (4) One graphic design product from any of the Individual Graphic
Design categories.
    d.  Each product must follow the rules listed in the category
descriptions found within the standard operating procedure for the Navy
Media Awards.
    e.  Applicants are required to provide a biography as part of the
submission process. The biography is not part of the selection process but
will be used to identify and introduce the selectees to the faculty and
staff at the University if selected. Contact Master Chief Lewis directly for
the submission process.

3.  Prior to acceptance to the program and distribution of orders,
applicants must:
    a.  Be approved to reenlist or extend in the MC Rating through June
2025.
    b.  Not reach high year tenure before June 2025.
    c.  Have a command endorsed 1306.
    d.  Be within physical fitness assessment standards to include no PFA
    failures in the past three years.
    e.  Not have any civil or Non-Judicial Punishment violations in the past
    three years.

4.  Course scope, prerequisites and portfolio requirements are found in
CANTRAC, which can be accessed via the Navy Education and Training Command
website at https://www.netc.navy.mil/. Click on the CANTRAC icon at the
bottom of the webpage and search for course information using either Course
Identification Number listed in paragraph 1 or the title, Advanced Military
Visual Journalism.

5.   Applicants in their orders window, and not yet selected for orders,
must contact the detailer with your intentions.  Applicants who have
executed orders and are en route to their next command are not eligible.
Navy Personnel Command has the final approval prior to final selection.

6.  The selection board will convene in mid March 2021.  Selectees will be
notified via Naval message no later than 9 April 2021.

7.  Point of contact is MCCM Michael Lewis who can be reached by email at
michael.b.lewis3(at)navy.mil or by phone at (703) 692-4704.

8.  Request widest dissemination.

9.  Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

