UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 152039Z APR 20 MID110000585252U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 109/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N09/APR//

SUBJ/COVID-19 UPDATE GUIDANCE TO SUPPORT FLEET OPERATIONS//

RMKS/1.  The Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19) has impacted our Fleet in 
profound and enduring ways.  However, the priorities CNO stated in his 
message to the Fleet on 8 April also endure.  First, our health and safety.  
Second, ongoing fleet operations and our support to the coronavirus effort. 
Third, generating the support required to keep the first two on track.

2.  We are learning to operate our Fleet in a new normal, and must accept 
that COVID-19 will be with us for the foreseeable future.  We will continue 
to navigate this new dynamic and evolve our way of thinking and day-to-day 
operations.  All hands will be required to defeat this unseen enemy.  Our 
Fleet will continue to operate.

3.  We have learned much about how to combat this virus over the past few 
weeks.  COVID-19 makes our job more complex because individuals can harbor 
the infection and appear asymptomatic and because the shipboard environment 
makes it difficult to comply with CDC guidelines.  However, we know that 
isolating or quarantining personnel for 14 days gives a 95% chance that they 
will be virus free at the end of that time.  21 days gives you a 99% chance.  
Properly disinfecting kills the virus.  Covering your cough or sneeze 
protects shipmates.  If you feel ill, stay home.  Maintaining social 
distancing, wherever possible, is effective.  Wearing face coverings is 
effective.  We also know that unless there are underlying health issues, the 
virus rarely requires hospitalization and even more rarely is fatal for our 
young and fit Sailor demographic.  However, these measures all rely on the 
individual Sailor, and we must rely on each other for these actions to be 
effective.

4.  We understand these measures are especially challenging in a shipboard 
environment, but they are not impossible.  We need your complete cooperation 
to pull together as we fight this virus, as the COVID-19 transmission rate is 
three times that of the normal flu.  Should our preventative measures fall 
short, it is extremely important that we rapidly isolate individuals and 
determine their close contacts.  Quick identification, isolation and cleaning 
is the only way to stop further spread aboard a ship.  This will be a 
continuing fight, but we will win.

5.  Our goal moving forward as we prepare ships, submarines and aircraft to 
operate at sea is to deploy with ZERO positive cases.  That is our goal, but 
leadership recognizes that given the nature of this virus it may not be 
realistic.  Personal accountability and preventive actions will be critical 
to our success.  Every single Sailor must take action, from the operational 
commander to the deckplate; E-1 to O-10.  We each need to be attuned to our 
own health and our interactions at home, aboard ship or out in town.  At the 
first sign of feeling abnormal  cough, unusual fatigue or a fever - treat 
yourself at home if possible, and if necessary, seek medical attention.  It 
is OK to take yourself out of the game temporarily to keep yourself and your 
shipmates healthy.

6.  We must continue to do all we can to prevent and eventually stop the 
spread of COVID-19.  To that end, weve published initial prevention and 
mitigation frameworks 
(https://www.navy.mil/submit/display.asp?story_id=112595) and standardized 
predeployment guidance for Fleet use.  We must implement these measures so 
that YOU in the FLEET can take care of your Sailors and continue to operate 
with confidence in order to meet mission.  We are in close communication with 
staffs across the Fleet to make sure we continue to learn and adapt quickly  
the speed of relevance cannot be understated.  As we learn more, we will 
update these procedures  they are being updated several times a week, so 
check back often.  We welcome your feedback and best practices as we protect 
and defend our Fleet and our families.

7.  America has a great Navy.  Our Nation counts on us to be exactly that and 
I stand with you as we operate in this new normal.

8.  Released by Admiral Robert P. Burke, Vice Chief of Naval Operations.// 
UNCLASSIFIED//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

