UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 241808Z JAN 20 MID110000334548U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 018/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-21 NAVY RESERVE FULL TIME SUPPORT LIEUTENANT 
COMMANDER CONTINUATION SELECTION BOARDS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Fiscal Year 2021 (FY-21) Navy Reserve 
Full Time Support (FTS) Lieutenant Commander (LCDR) Continuation Selection 
Boards.  The FTS LCDR continuation selections boards will convene, when 
required, immediately following the corresponding FY-21 Navy Reserve FTS 
Commander promotion selection boards.  Eligible FTS LCDRs who are fully 
qualified to remain on active duty and meet the eligibility requirements in 
paragraph 3 will be considered for continuation.

2.  Effect of Failure of Selection for Promotion.  A FTS LCDR who has twice 
failed of selection (2XFOS) to the grade of commander and whose name is not 
on a promotion list must be released from active duty and removed from the 
Reserve Active-Status List (RASL) on the later of (1) the first day of the 
month after the month in which the officer completes 20 years of commissioned 
service, or (2) the first day of the seventh month after the month in which 
the President approves the report of the board which consider the officer for 
the second time, unless the officer is retained under section 12646 of title 
10, U.S. Code (18-year sanctuary for a Reserve retirement), or retained under 
section 12686 of title 10, U.S. Code (18-year sanctuary for a Regular 
retirement), or continued on the RASL by a continuation selection board.

3.  Continuation Selection Board Eligibility of FTS LCDR Unrestricted Line, 
Restricted Line, and Staff Corps:
    a.  2XFOS LCDRs with less than 14 Years of Active Service (YOAS) on the 
date of mandatory removal from the RASL under paragraph 2.
Officers selected for continuation will be continued for a period of
3 years, subject to the limits of paragraph 3.d.
    b.  2XFOS LCDRs with 14-18 YOAS on the date of mandatory removal from the 
RASL under paragraph 2.  Officers selected for continuation will be continued 
until eligible for a Regular retirement at the completion of 20 YOAS, subject 
to the limits of paragraph 3.d.
    c.  2XFOS LCDRs with 18 or more YOAS on the date of mandatory removal 
from the RASL under paragraph 2 may be recommended for continuation beyond 20 
YOAS in one year increments, subject to the limits of paragraph 3.d.
    d.  In no case will any LCDR be continued on the RASL beyond the last day 
of the month in which the officer completes 24 years of commissioned service, 
or the last day of the month in which the officer becomes 62 years of age, 
whichever is earlier.

4.  Reserve FTS LCDRs who meet any of the eligibility criteria in paragraph 3 
shall check BUPERS Online, via https://my.navy.mil/quick-links.html, after 
release of the respective selection ALNAV message, to determine if they were 
selected for continuation.  Once logged into BUPERS Online, click on 
Advancements/Selection Boards and then on the appropriate officer
(Promotion/Continuation) board to determine the results.

5.  Promotion selection board convening dates are as follows:
    a.  Reserve FTS O-5 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 25 
February 2020.
    b.  Reserve FTS O-5 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes 3 March 2020.

6.  Correspondence addressed to the promotion selection board will not be 
forwarded to a subsequent continuation board for consideration.  Officers 
must communicate with each board separately.

7.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a continuation selection 
board via the Letter to the Board (LTB) process.  NAVADMIN
220/19 announced the introduction of a new application known as Electronic 
Submission of Selection Board Documents (ESSBD), accessible through MyNavy 
Portal (MNP).  ESSBD improves the speed, transparency and confidence of 
receipt over current LTB submission methods, such as hard copy and e-mail 
submitted letters and related attachments.
    a.  Beginning 1 January 2020, ESSBD will be available for all promotion, 
advancement and selection boards.
    b.  ESSBD provides board candidates with the capability to electronically 
submit LTBs in a standard, consistent format, with or without attachments and 
will allow the candidate to see (for content and clarity) exactly what will 
be delivered and presented to the board.
    c.  To utilize ESSBD, candidates must access document services through 
MNP at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/my-record.  On-screen instructions will 
direct the submitter thereafter.
    d.  Submission and subsequent receipt acknowledgement for LTBs submitted 
via ESSBD or other means does not constitute confirmation of eligibility for 
the boards to which LTBs are submitted.  If required, a full visual user 
guide is available at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion.
    e.  LTBs submitted to officer continuation selection boards must be 
received by Navy Personnel Command not later than
2359 (central time) 10 days prior to the convening date of the respective 
board.  Submitters are cautioned to not wait until the deadline date to 
submit LTBs via ESSBD or other available avenues.
    f.  If sending a board package from a non-NMCI network (bumed.mil, 
eu.navy.mil, etc.), please review procedures listed in NAVADMIN 220/19.
    g.  The written communication may call attention to the board, any matter 
concerning the record of the officer that the officer considers important.  
Written communication may include, as enclosures, correspondence from any 
individual concerning the eligible officer.  Correspondence not originated by 
the eligible officer, including endorsement to the letter of the eligible 
officer and letters written on behalf of that officer, must contain a written 
acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she desires such 
correspondence be presented to the board.
Correspondence without such an acknowledgement is considered third party 
correspondence and will be returned without being presented to the board.  
Classified correspondence will not be accepted.

8.  Questions regarding LTB submission should be directed to MyNavy Career 
Center by calling 1-833-330-MNCC (1-833-330-6622/DSN:
882-6622).

9.  Questions regarding continuation should be directed to Navy Personnel 
Command PERS-801 at (901) 874-4533/DSN 882.  Additional information is also 
available at https://my.navy.mil/quick- links.html, then click NPC.  Click 
Officer at the top, then OCM, Reserve Officer Community Manager.  Click on 
the Full Time Support link and then FTS Continuation/Retention.

10.  This NAVADMIN will be canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2020.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

