ROUTINE 
R 271930Z OCT 22 MID200080398813U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 243/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT// 
 
SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-24-1 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/06JAN21// 
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62E, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the U.S. Naval 
Test Pilot School (USNTPS) Selection Board on 14 December 2022. 
This board will select highly qualified naval aviators and naval 
flight officers (NFO) for USNTPS and U.S. Air Force Test Pilot 
School.  Test Pilot School (TPS) graduates have a significant and 
long-lasting influence on platforms and systems that directly impact 
the future warfighting capability of the Fleet.  Request command and 
Fleet community assistance to identify candidates with strong 
operational performance and ideally, strong academic backgrounds in 
science, technology, engineering, and mathematic fields of study. 
 
2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a command-endorsed 
application in line with reference (a) must be received by MyNavy 
Career Center (MNCC) no later than 11 November 2022.  Additional 
documentation (including type wing or carrier air wing) 
endorsements, letters of recommendation, fitness reports, etc., will 
be accepted until 7 December 2022 but must be submitted by the 
applicant as a letter to the board in line with subparagraph 4a 
below.  The e-mail address(es), phone number(s), college 
transcripts, and post-TPS test squadron assignment preferences of 
the applicant must be included with the application.  Willingness or 
unwillingness to accept the UX-24 follow-on tour must be included. 
Additionally, include an anthropometric data measurement record, a 
current body composition assessment report from Physical Readiness 
Information Management System, and any interest in performing 
unmanned aircraft systems developmental testing following TPS. 
Current contact information (ashore or afloat) of commanding officer 
also must be included to expedite notification if selected. 
 
3.  The command endorsement shall explicitly state whether the 
applicant, if selected, will be allowed and available to report for 
pre-arrival training by the following dates: 
    a.  17 April 2023 for fixed Wing pilots. 
    b.  24 April 2023 for rotary Wing pilots. 
    c.  22 May 2023 for NFOs. 
Endorsements with availability dates after these respective dates 
may be removed from consideration and not reviewed by the board. 
The inability of the applicant to meet the above dates may be 
mitigated by conducting initial training in a temporary additional 
duty (TEMADD) status at the expense of the endorsing command.  If 
this is required, it must be explicitly stated in the command 
endorsement that the endorsing command will provide TEMADD funds 
until the applicant can officially detach. 
 
4.  Application package submissions: 
    a.  The preferred method of application submission is 
electronic.  E-mail encrypted portable document format submissions 
to cscselboard(at)navy.mil and carbon copy 
43_aedo_dtlr.fct(at)navy.mil.  If required, please visit 
https://dod411.gds.disa.mil/ to download the required mailbox 
certificates to encrypt the e-mail.  If unable to send encrypted, 
please contact 43_aedo_dtlr.fct(at)navy.mil for assistance. 
    b.  If unable to send electronically, applications may be sent 
via U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to the following address: 
    MyNavy Career Center 
    FY-24-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220) 
    5720 Integrity Drive 
    Millington, TN 38055-0000 
    c.  Applications sent via FedEx, USPS, or DHL should use the 
following address: 
    MyNavy Career Center 
    FY-24-1 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #220) 
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, BLDG 768, RM E302 
    Millington, TN 38055-6300 
 
5.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by calling the MNCC at 1-833-330-MNCC or DSN 882-6622. 
 
6.  Eligibility: 
    a.  Designated naval aviators and NFOs through the grade of 
lieutenant commander who are qualified for flight duties and have 
not been terminated from flying status are eligible for selection. 
    b.  The preferred unrestricted line (13X0) aviators are junior 
officers (O2 or O3) with detailer-forecasted career timing to 
complete the selected TPS program and a 36-month follow-on test tour 
prior to their expected department head tour.  If there are not 
enough qualified junior officers to meet requirements, lieutenant 
commanders with exceptional records may be selected, provided they 
can meet follow-on test tour requirements and applicable career 
milestones. 
    c.  Aerospace engineering duty officer (1510) aviators through 
the grade of lieutenant commander may be selected if they are able 
to serve a 36-month follow-on test tour and still meet career 
milestones. 
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing to 
meet a minimum test tour of 24 months may have their application 
removed from consideration. 
    e.  Applicants should ensure they have a valid government 
passport that will not expire prior to the completion of the class. 
 
7.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information via MyNavy HR at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Boards/Administrative/Test-Pilot/. 
 
8.  Points of contact are CDR Todd Keith, PERS-434B, via e-mail at 
todd.m.keith.mil(at)us.navy.mil or Ms. Brandy Theisen, PERS-434B1, 
via e-mail at 43_aedo_dtlr.fct(at)navy.mil// 
 
9.  Released by Rear Admiral J. P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
