CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 112051Z DEC 23 MID120000719829U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 296/23
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/FY-25 ACTIVE-DUTY NAVY AND NAVY RESERVE E9, E8, AND E7 SELECTION AND 
SCREENING BOARD MEMBERSHIP NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/29APR20//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5C, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S. NAVY 
SELECTION BOARDS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the process for assignment of enlisted 
participants for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 Active-Duty Navy and Navy Reserve 
Master Chief Petty Officer (MCPO), Senior Chief Petty Officer (SCPO), and 
Chief Petty Officer (CPO) Selection and Screening Boards.  The experience 
gained from exposure to the board process is beneficial to all senior 
enlisted leaders (SEL).  Every MCPO, not otherwise restricted from 
participating in an enlisted board, is expected to serve as a member of one 
or more selection boards over the course of their tenure as a Master Chief.  
In order to ensure our board membership requirements are met, immediate 
superior in command (ISIC) and/or type commander (TYCOM) leadership are 
encouraged to seek out the best board member candidates within your purview 
and provide those names to the Membership Branch Head, copying the Naval 
Personnel Command (NPC) Force Master Chief (FORCM).

2.  Master Chiefs are encouraged to apply for membership in accordance with 
the dates listed in paragraph 6.  Once that date has passed, Master Chiefs 
will be assigned as board members pending vacancies not filled via the 
application process.  Master Chiefs assigned as enlisted Selection Board 
Members will be notified of their assignment by the Selection Board 
Membership Branch Head.
Once notified, they will have five (5) working days to submit an Enlisted 
Selection Board Member/Recorder Application (NAVPERS 1400/2).

3.  In addition to membership criteria contained in reference (a) and on the 
NAVPERS 1400/2, the following also applies to selection board nominees:
    a.  Must not have a relative or personal relationship defined in 
reference (a) serving on the same board in any capacity.
    b.  All Active-Duty and Reserve Navy relatives, to include former 
military spouses, must be listed on the application form along with their 
rank/rate, even if not board eligible.
    c.  Must not have been a member of the same board in the previous year.
    d.  Must not be the subject of an investigation of any kind.
    e.  If under care for any severe medical issues, the member shall consult 
with a treating physician regarding the possibility of travel in the time 
frame indicated.  The medical provider is not required to endorse the members 
application.
    f.  Must not have approved leave nor medical treatment scheduled 
immediately preceding or following the scheduled board.

4.  If any of the criteria referenced in section 3 are met, assigned members 
must specify that in their response with the NAVPERS 1400/2 attached.  In the 
event a member, or a members command, feels mission or job scope would 
prevent them from assignment to a specific selection board, direct 
correspondence attesting to that is required from the potential members first 
flag officer in their chain of command to Commander, NPC.

5.  FY-25 enlisted board schedule (recorders report one week early for 
training):
    a.  Reserve/Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) E9/E8 
(combined):  4 through 15 March 2024
    b.  Active-Duty E9/E8 (combined):  25 March through 19 April 2024
    c.  Reserve/TAR E7:  28 May through 8 June 2024
    d.  Active-Duty E7:  24 June through 19 July 2024

6.  Due dates for assigned member and recorder applications to be received by 
Board Membership Branch (PERS-805):
    a.  Reserve/TAR E9/E8 (combined):  16 January 2024
    b.  Active-Duty E9/E8 (combined):  16 January 2024
    c.  Reserve/TAR E7:  28 January 2024
    d.  Active-Duty E7:  25 February 2024

7.  Additional information pertaining to board membership:
    a.  Frocked MCPOs may participate as selection board members and should 
expect assignment.
    b.  In select circumstances, NPC may provide permanent change of station 
(PCS) order modifications if an applicant with PCS orders is selected to 
serve on an enlisted board.  Selected board members should contact PERS-805 
at (901)874-2436/DSN 882 or via e-mail at pers-805.fct@navy.mil, if this 
applies.  Do not contact your detailer directly as they may be eligible for 
the board.
    c.  Sailors who are attached to deployed units will not normally be 
assigned.  If the unit to which an assigned member is due to deploy during or 
close to the board date, assigned members will identify that in their 
response to the Membership Branch Head.
    d.  Active-Duty and Reserve Component MCPOs are encouraged to apply for 
or can expect assignment to any of the above boards.
There are no restrictions preventing a Sailor of one component from serving 
on a board of the other.
    e.  SCPOs and CPOs (to include frocked) may serve as recorders on any of 
the above boards for which they are not eligible.
    f.  SCPOs and junior may not serve on enlisted Selection Boards.
    g.  Recorders must be stationed in the continental United States, no 
exceptions.
    h.  Members/recorders must have an active Government Travel Credit Card 
(GTCC).

8.  The application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) can be downloaded from:
    a.  Active-Duty:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-
and-promotion/active-duty-enlisted
    b.  Reserve:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-
promotion/reserve-enlisted

9.  Recorder and member signed applications must be endorsed by the members 
Commanding Officer (CO) and forwarded directly to their cognizant FORCM/Fleet 
Master Chief (FLTCM).  The FORCM/FLTCM will forward endorsed applications to 
PERS-805 via e-mail at pers-805.fct@navy.mil or will return the endorsed 
applications to the member for submission.  In circumstances where the 
applicant is assigned to a joint command or otherwise does not have a 
FORCM/FLTCM, the application should be sent to PERS-805 by the commands SEL, 
provided the SEL is not eligible for advancement on the board for which the 
applicant is submitting.  If you are unsure of your circumstance, please 
contact PERS-805.

10.  Applications must be endorsed by the members CO and forwarded directly 
to PERS-805 via e-mail at pers-805.fct@navy.mil.

11.  Do not use request chits and do not forward applications through your 
commands administrative office, including those of the command master chief 
(CMC)/Chief of the Boat (COB), CO or FORCM/FLTCM.  This will compromise board 
membership and invalidate your application.  Applications go directly to the 
CMC/COB, CO, and FORCM/FLTCM.  Nomination forms received from, or routed 
through, individuals other those noted above will not be considered.

12.  Board membership will be held in the strictest confidence.
Once an application is submitted, a policy of non-disclosure has been ordered 
by the Deputy Chief of Navy Personnel (DCNP).  Do not discuss applications or 
selection, if chosen to serve on a board, with anyone other than your 
CMC/COB, CO, cognizant FORCM/FLTCM, or board support personnel at NPC.  It is 
appropriate for a CMC/COB to be told by a member in the command of that 
members board service; however, the CMC/COB may not disclose their own 
service on a board to anyone other than the CO or next echelon ISIC.  Failure 
to adhere to this policy is a direct violation of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice and will result in removal from the board and possible 
administrative or disciplinary action by DCNP.

13.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominees application and 
availability to serve as a board member.  CO concurrence is required.  Do not 
recommend personnel that are under an investigation of any kind or those with 
severe medical issues.  If the CO initiates or becomes aware of an 
investigation after the initial nomination is submitted, notify the points of 
contact below immediately.  COs, CMCs, COBs, and applicants should understand 
that once selected, the member is under official orders to the board and 
requests for removal from board duties will not be granted except in extreme 
cases as specified in reference (a).

14.  Points of contact:
     a.  Enlisted Board Membership Clerk at (901) 874-2436/DSN 882
     b.  Membership Branch Head at (901) 874-2209/DSN 882
     c.  PERS-805 at pers-805.fct@navy.mil

15.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED/
