CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 231244Z OCT 24 MID120001485831U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 218/24 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT// 
 
SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FISCAL YEAR 2025 CHIEF DEFENSE COUNSEL FOR 
MILITARY COMMISSIONS JOINT SELECTION BOARD// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening date for the Fiscal 
Year (FY) 2025 of 23 January 2025.  The following list indicates the 
name, Active Duty list number, and date of rank of the senior and 
junior officers on the Active Duty list who are eligible for 
consideration as of the date of this NAVADMIN.  Officers within the 
zone must "opt-in" in order to be considered.  The zone of eligible 
Navy officers is as follows: 
 
Sr Eligible  Wilson, D.      001008-50  1 OCT 21 
Jr Eligible  Kirby, J.       017908-50  1 DEC 22 
 
2.  The zone of consideration includes judge advocates of the 
Regular Component of the Navy, on the Active Duty list, who are 
active or inactive members in good standing of the bar of a Federal 
court or highest court of a state, the District of Columbia, 
commonwealth, or territory (an inactive selectee must become active 
before the board report will be approved) and are serving in the 
grade of rear admiral (lower half) or captain with a date of rank of 
1 January 2023 or earlier. 
 
3.  The names and records of the following officers shall be 
excluded from consideration: 
    a.  Officers with approved separation or retirement dates within 
90 days after the board is convened; 
    b.  Officers who do not submit a request that they be considered 
for selection; 
    c.  Officers with previous service in any of the following 
organizations:  Military Commission Defense Organization/Office of 
the Chief Defense Counsel for Military Commissions, Office of the 
Convening Authority for Military Commissions, Office of the Chief 
Prosecutor for Military Commissions, Military Commissions Trial 
Judiciary, United States Court of Military Commissions Review, 
National Security Division of the United States Department of 
Justice, Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, United States Southern 
Command, after September 11, 2001, and Joint Task Force Guantanamo. 
    d.  Any officer who is appointed as a member of this joint 
selection board. 
 
4.  All eligible officers who wish to be considered for the board 
must complete a request form for consideration and submit via e-mail 
to CDR Abby Surbella at the e-mail address below.  For those 
officers who have requested board consideration, a summary of the 
officer's joint duty experience will be considered by the board. 
All eligible officers who request consideration must populate a 
joint duty experience summary form and submit to CDR Surbella via e- 
mail along with any other matters for board consideration not 
already included in individual service records not later than 28 
October 2024.  Copies of the request form and joint duty experience 
summary form were distributed with People Talk 24-30 and are 
available from CDR Surbella. 
 
5.  Upon approval by the President of the United States, the officer 
selected will be appointed to the temporary grade of rear admiral 
(lower half) while serving as the Chief Defense Counsel for Military 
Commissions. 
 
6.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a selection board. 
All correspondence must arrive no later than 28 October 2024 and 
shall be addressed to CDR Abby Surbella at the e-mail or mailing 
address below (e-mail preferred): 
 
    Navy Personnel Command (PERS-4416B) 
    Attn:  CDR Abby Surbella, JAGC, USN 
    5720 Integrity Drive 
    Millington, TN 38055-4416 
    E-mail: Barbara.A.Surbella.mil@us.navy.mil 
 
The written communication may address any matter concerning the 
record of the officer that the officer considers important.  Written 
communication may include, as enclosures, correspondence from any 
individual concerning the eligible officer.  Correspondence not 
originated by the eligible officer, including endorsement to the 
letter of the eligible officer and letters written on behalf of that 
officer, must contain a written acknowledgement by the eligible 
officer that he or she desires such correspondence be presented to 
the board.  Correspondence without such an acknowledgement is 
considered third-party correspondence and will be returned without 
being presented to the board.  Classified correspondence will not be 
accepted. 
 
7.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
