UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 011332Z NOV 21 MID200001249339U

FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CNO WASHINGTON DC
CMC WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 247/21

MSGID/GENADMIN/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC//

SUBJ/2021 ANNUAL NAVY LEAGUE SEA SERVICE AWARDS//
POC/AWARDS BOARD/NA/CALLSIGN:  NAVY LEAGUE OF THE UNITED 
STATES/LOC/ARLINGTON, VA/TEL: (703)312-1562/EMAIL/LCORBIN(AT)NAVYLEAGUE.ORG//

RMKS/1.  The Navy League of the United States (NLUS) is a national 
organization of more than 27,000 members and over 200 councils throughout the 
United States and overseas.  Each year, NLUS presents awards in recognition 
of outstanding individual achievements in leadership, maritime affairs, 
scientific progress, engineering excellence, logistics competence, excellence 
in intelligence, and service to community and country.  All active and 
reserve Navy and Marine Corps members are eligible.  Members of the Coast 
Guard, Merchant Marines, and civilians may also be eligible for some awards.

2.  The NLUS awards follow:
    a.  The John Paul Jones Award for Inspirational Leadership recognizes a 
Navy Officer who has made an outstanding contribution to the high standards 
of leadership in the Naval service.
    b.  The Admiral Claude V. Ricketts Award for Inspirational Leadership
    recognizes two Navy enlisted Sailors (one E-7 or above and one E-6 or 
below) that have demonstrated leadership and professional competence.
    c.  The Captain Winifred Quick Collins Award for Inspirational Leadership
    recognizes two Navy or Marine Corps women (one officer and one enlisted) 
who have demonstrated exceptional leadership and performance in their 
military duties and have reflected credit on women in the Naval service.
    d.  The Lieutenant General John A. Lejeune Award for Inspirational
    Leadership recognizes a Marine Corps Officer who has made an outstanding
    contribution to the highest standards of leadership in the Marine Corps.
    e.  The General Gerald C. Thomas Award for Inspirational Leadership
    recognizes an Enlisted Marine who has demonstrated outstanding leadership 
and professional competence.
    f.  The Stephen Decatur Award for Operational Competence recognizes a 
Navy Officer or Sailor who has made an outstanding personal contribution in 
the course of actual Naval operations that have advanced the readiness and
    competence of the Naval service.
    g.  The General Holland M. Smith Award for Operational Competence 
recognizes a Marine Corps Officer or Enlisted Marine who has made an 
outstanding personal contribution that has advanced the readiness and 
competence of the Naval service in the course of actual operations.
    h.  The Robert M. Thompson Award for Outstanding Civilian Leadership
    recognizes a civilian who has furthered the cause of seapower.
    i.  The Rear Admiral William S. Parsons Award for Scientific and 
Technical Progress recognizes a Navy or Marine Corps Service Member or 
civilian who has made an outstanding contribution in any field of science 
that has furthered the development and progress of the Navy or Marine Corps.
    j.  The Alfred Thayer Mahan Award for Literary Achievement recognizes a 
Navy or Marine Corps Service Member or civilian for a notable literary 
contribution that has advanced the importance and cause of seapower in the 
United States.
    k.  The Honorable J. William Middendorf II Award for Engineering 
Excellence recognizes a Navy Petty Officer who has demonstrated outstanding 
leadership and professional competence required while assigned to a deployed 
ship.
    l.  The Admiral Ben Moreell Award for Logistics Competence recognizes an
    Officer (Navy or Marine Corps) and an Enlisted Service Member (Navy or 
Marine Corps) who has made an outstanding personal contribution that has 
advanced the logistics readiness and competence of the Naval service.
    m.  The Vice Admiral Robert F. Batchelder Awards recognizes five Navy
    Officers in the Supply Corps levels O-1 through O-4 who have made the 
most significant personal contributions to the supply readiness of the 
operating forces.

3.  Sea Service Awards for Excellence of Naval Professionals in Intelligence,
the Merchant Marines, and Coast Guard sponsored by NLUS follow:
    a.  Civilian Mariners Awards for the Naval Fleet Auxiliary Force and 
special mission ships are the Captain Arthur L. Johnson Award for 
Inspirational Leadership and the Able Seaman Oscar Chappell Award for 
Outstanding Maritime Stewardship.
    b.  Coast Guard Awards are the Captain David H. Jarvis Award for
    Inspirational Leadership by a Coast Guard Officer and the Douglas A. 
Munro Award for Inspirational Leadership by an Enlisted Coast Guardsman.
    c.  The Naval Intelligence Professionals Award for Exceptional Leadership 
in Intelligence Support to the Fleet is awarded to that Officer of the Sea
    Services, in the pay grades of O-4, O-5, or O-6, and selected among those
    nominated by afloat and shore-based commands.
    d.  The Project Handclasp Humanitarian Service Award recognizes a Navy,
    Marine Corps, or Coast Guard Service Member for exceptional personal 
effort and accomplishments in humanitarian assistance.

4.  Nominations:
    a.  Nomination criteria.  Nominations must be fully substantiated and
    reflect a careful and conscientious evaluation of the nominee for
    accomplishment December 1, 2020 through November 30, 2021.  Each 
nomination package shall include:
        (1) A cover page with nominee's full name, rank/rate, current duty
        station and address, home address, work and home phone numbers, e –
mail address, home of record, length of service (for military nominees), name 
of award being nominated for, point of contact name, rank/rate, address,
commercial phone number (this cannot be a DSN number), fax number, e -mail
address, and signature of commanding officer.
        (2) A nomination achievement/justification section in paragraph or
        bulletized format.  It should explain in a manner easily understood 
by the general public and should avoid acronyms, generalities, or excessive 
use of superlatives.
        (3) A proposed citation in standard paragraph form.
        (4) The total submission packet, excluding the proposed citation, 
must not exceed four pages.
        (5) A template for the required format is available on the Navy 
League website at www.navyleague.org/programs/awards/sea-services
    b.  Submission.  The requested method of submission is via website to
    www.navyleague.org/programs/awards/sea-services with all attachments in
    Microsoft Word format or Adobe Acrobat.  Nominations must be received no 
later than February 18, 2022.

5.  Additional information regarding the awards and nomination process may be
found on the Navy League website, www.navyleague.org/programs/awards/sea-
services 
6.  Awards will be presented at the Navy League Convention held in Orlando,
Florida, June 2022, or another appropriate event.  The Navy League will cover
expenses for lodging and meals of award participants, plus one guest.  Travel
costs will not be covered by the League.  Using this message as a reference,
commands are encouraged to issue temporary additional duty orders so award
recipients may attend the Navy League's Annual Convention.  For additional
logistics information about this program, point of contact is Ms. Lindsay
Corbin of the Navy League at Tel:  703-312-1562 or email:  lcorbin
@navyleague.org.

7.  Released by the Honorable Carlos Del Toro, Secretary of the Navy.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

