UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 241616Z NOV 21 MID600051218314U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 267/21 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV// 
 
SUBJ/TALENT MANAGEMENT TASK FORCE AND ENAVFIT// 
 
RMKS/1.  Dominance of the maritime domain requires innovation and forward 
thinking.  With investments in platforms, weapons and technologies to meet 
evolving operational conditions, it is imperative that we invest in our most 
essential warfighting asset, our people.  Talent management and modern 
development approaches are required to attract, develop, train and retain the 
best and fully qualified Sailors in our Navy. 
 
2.  To meet this challenge Navy Personnel Command (NPC) has established the 
Talent Management Task Force (TMTF) to launch a series of Performance 
Evaluation Transformation and Talent Management (PET-TM) programs and 
initiatives.  The TMTF is divided into four talent management lines of 
operation:  Talent Development and Retention, Performance Management, 
Succession Planning and Career Development and Management.  The TMTF end 
state is to ensure effective Sailor development that retains the best and 
fully qualified Sailors, in the right assignments, to maximize the 
warfighting effectiveness of the Navy. 
 
3.  TMTF is working on five key PET-TM programs and initiatives briefly 
described below, which will be implemented in the coming months and years. 
    a.  eNavFit.  As a replacement to NAVFIT98A, this online and offline web-
enabled performance appraisal interface will be available for both connected 
and disconnected operations.  Access will be through BUPERS Online (BOL) and 
NPC document services to support online evaluation and fitness report 
drafting, routing, review and submission.  eNavFit will further serve as a 
bridge toward the larger long-term goal of a fully transformed performance 
evaluation system concurrent with the fielding of Navy Personnel and Pay 
System (NP2) full operational capability.  Leveraging TMTF collaboration with 
Fleet and TYCOMs, follow-on studies are in progress at Naval Postgraduate 
School to ensure future changes to the performance evaluation system are 
directly related to job performance.  Additionally, TMTF will study various 
attributes of an evaluation to include duration of reports, numerical grades, 
promotion recommendations and distinct rankings/breakouts. 
    b.  Update to BUPERSINST 1610.10F, Navy Performance Evaluation 
System.  An update to BUPERSINST 1610.10F incorporates the inclusion of 
eNavFit, rescinds administrative change requests to be submitted within two 
years of the performance evaluation end date, introduces the use of coaching 
skills to performance counseling conversations and mandates the completion of 
mid-term performance counseling. 
    c.  Mid-term performance counseling.  The initiative clarifies the 
requirement to conduct timely mid-term performance counseling, provides 
training, encourages the use of coaching behaviors and introduces the 
Military Individual Development Plan (NAVPERS 1610/19) and Mid-term 
Performance Counseling Checklist (NAVPERS 1610/20). 
    d.  MyNavy Coaching.  MyNavy Coaching is an initiative to build and 
sustain a coaching culture within the Navy.  MyNavy Coaching is focused on 
active listening, empathy and asking powerful questions for Sailors to engage 
in peer-to-peer coaching conversations. 
    e.  Navy Command Leadership Assessment and Selection Program 
(NCLASP).  NCLASP is an effort to create a more effective process to select 
future Navy leaders by including psychological assessments, cognitive 
aptitude tests, communication skills, and personality attributes known to be 
associated with effective leadership into the leadership selection 
process.  To date, Navy Expeditionary Combat Command, Naval Special Warfare 
and Naval Submarine Force communities have participated in NCLASP pilots to 
select future leaders. Lessons learned from these pilots will pave the way 
for a comprehensive roll out across other communities with a program tailored 
to the unique needs of each TYCOM while maintaining the gold standards of 
personnel selection science. 
 
4.  eNavFit will be the first PET-TM initiative to be released. 
eNavFit consolidates the functionality of NAVFIT98A into a web-enabled 
performance evaluation.  Sailors will be able to draft, electronically submit 
and sign performance evaluations for submission to the Sailors official 
military personnel file in a matter of days.  The functionality of eNavFit 
will improve report accuracy, timeliness and quality as well as reduce 
evaluation processing, submission errors and routing delays.  NPC will deploy 
eNavFit to the Reserve Component in December 2021 and deploy to the Active 
Component in early 2022.  BUPERSINST 1610.10F will be released soon and will 
include policy for eNavFit. 
 
5.  eNavFit has been designed for the following operational conditions. 
    a.  Connected operations.  For Sailors in a standard office environment 
with regular internet connectivity. 
    b.  Connected and disconnected operations.  For Sailors or commands that 
are underway or have limited internet connectivity. Sailors will be able to 
work offline and periodically upload and submit completed reports via BOL 
when connectivity is available. 
    c.  Disconnected operations.  For commands entirely offline with legacy 
ability to print, wet sign and mail completed reports to NPC. 
 
6.  Performance evaluation training materials, an eNavFit user guide and 
quick reference cards can be found via the NPC website at 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Performance-Evaluation/ 
 
7.  For questions concerning any of these PET-TM programs and initiatives, 
contact the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) at (833) 833- MNCC or via e-mail at 
askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
 
8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
9.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
