CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 270020Z MAY 23 MID120000140512U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 128/23

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/STOP MOVEMENT FOR PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION AND TEMPORARY DUTY FOR ALL 
NAVY UNIFORMED MEMBERS, CIVILIAN PERSONNEL, AND DEPENDENTS TO GUAM//

REF/A/DOC/COMJRM/23MAY23//

AMPN/REF A IS COMMANDER, JOINT REGION MARIANAS, AUTHORIZED EVACUATION OF 
PERSONNEL, DEPENDENTS, AND EMPLOYEES IN DESIGNATED AREAS IMPACTED BY TYPHOON 
MAWAR.//

RMKS/1.  In line with reference (a), and due to damage as a result of Typhoon 
Mawar, a stop movement for all permanent change of station (PCS) moves to 
Guam for Navy uniformed members, civilians, and their dependents is in effect 
until 30 June 2023.

2.  This stop movement order affects all personnel scheduled to report to 
commands and activities in Guam as either an ultimate duty station or an 
intermediate duty station in conjunction with a PCS move.  This notice is not 
directed at personnel scheduled for temporary additional duty (TAD) in the 
above mentioned area; however, personnel scheduled to report there in a TAD 
status over the next 30 days are advised to contact their chain of command to 
determine whether they should execute their TAD orders as scheduled.

3.  Procedures.  Personnel with orders to commands in the affected area who 
have not yet detached from their current command are directed to remain in 
place at their current command (if this is not possible for OCONUS Sailors, 
they should contact their detailer or MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) for further 
guidance).  Ship and embarked units/staffs who will be getting underway and 
therefore cannot retain the Sailor on board should detach the Sailor and 
direct the Sailor to report to the beach detachment, or Transient Personnel 
Unit (TPU) for temporary duty awaiting further transfer (ACC 330).  Members 
who have already detached, but have not departed the area of their homeport, 
are also directed to report to the nearest beach detachment, or TPU for 
temporary duty awaiting further transfer (ACC 330).  Members who have 
detached from their command (sea or shore) and have commenced travel should 
report to the nearest naval installation and contact their detailer or MNCC 
for further direction.  Detaching commands should make every effort to 
contact these members in order to advise them of the contents of this message 
and direct them to contact their detailer or MNCC.
Personnel who have additional questions or circumstances that are not 
adequately addressed above should contact their detailer or MNCC for further 
assistance and or guidance.

4.  Naval Education and Training Command (NETC) is coordinating with Navy 
Personnel Command (NPC) to hold all students pending and in route to Guam on 
station pending further direction.

5.  Sailors executing an outbound PCS from Guam may proceed when travel is 
available unless awaiting a critical relief for required fact-to-face 
turnover (i.e., commanding officer, executive officer, etc.).  Please contact 
your chain of command for further clarification.

6.  Sailors currently stationed in Guam and returning from travel off the 
island should return to Guam as scheduled when travel is available.

7.  Waivers.  Waivers may be granted by Commander, Joint Region Marianas for 
compelling cases where the travel is determined to be mission essential, 
necessary for humanitarian reasons, and warranted due to extreme hardship.  
Waivers are to be done on a case-by-case basis, shall be limited in number, 
and will be submitted to:
Mr. Nick Vanderwall
Director, Total Force Manpower and Programs (J1) Joint Region Marianas
E-mail: nikita.g.vanderwall.civ@us.navy.mil
AND
CDR Laura McDonald
Deputy Director, Total Force Management (J1) Joint Region Marianas
E-mail: laura.l.mcdonald.mil@us.navy.mil Requests will contain:
Full name (Service member or Civilian)
Rating/Paygrade
Detaching command
Reporting command to Guam
Number of dependents accompanying member Detailed Reasoning to report to Guam 
(i.e. critical for the gaining command during recovery period or will face 
major hardship)

8.  Information regarding entitlements.  The following provides general 
information regarding entitlements.  However, members are advised that the 
impact of this stop movement order on their specific entitlements is highly 
dependent on the member's individual circumstances.  For questions regarding 
entitlements, members should contact MNCC.
    a.  Per diem.  Per diem allowances may be payable to the member in line 
with the specific requirements of the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR).  
However, if the member has detached the old permanent duty station (PDS) and 
remains in the area of the old PDS/homeport, in a temporary duty status, per 
diem is generally not payable to the member in line with the JTR.  Personnel 
who have departed an overseas location and who are placed in a temporary duty 
awaiting further transfer (ACC 330) status upon arrival at the CONUS port of 
entry are entitled to per diem in line with the JTR.
    b.  Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA).  Personnel who have detached from 
an OCONUS command (or who have not yet detached but have vacated their 
permanent residence) and whose departure from the area of their overseas 
command is delayed by this message may be authorized payment of TLA in line 
with the JTR.
    c.  BAH.  Entitlement to BAH for members affected by this message remains 
unchanged from that of any other member under PCS orders.  Members continue 
to receive BAH at the old PDS rate (except for members who have departed an 
overseas location, they will receive BAH-T) while on leave, in transit, or 
for periods of temporary duty en route to the ultimate duty station, so long 
as they do not occupy government quarters in excess of 30 days.  This 30-day 
rule does not apply to new accessions, for which BAH stops upon occupation of 
government quarters for any duration.
    d.  Temporary Lodging Expense (TLE).  Authorization to receive TLE for 
members affected by this message remains unchanged from that of any other 
member under PCS orders.  TLE is generally authorized for up to fourteen days 
if the member has vacated permanent quarters or household goods have been 
packed.
    e.  Receipts/Records Pertaining to Added Expenses.
Reimbursement for certain added expenses members and their dependents might 
incur because of this stop movement order are governed by existing law and 
regulation.  While it may not be possible to fully reimburse every expense, 
members are advised to retain all pertinent receipts and records of expenses 
in the event some or all of the expenses are found to be reimbursable.

9.  For questions regarding information contained within this NAVADMIN, 
contact the MNCC contact center at 833-330-MNCC (6622) or askmncc@navy.mil.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

