CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 021643Z JUN 23 MID120000169682U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 133/23

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N7/JUN//

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2024-2025 STRATEGIST AND NATIONAL SECURITY FELLOWSHIPS AND 
GRADUATE EDUCATION SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS CALL FOR APPLICATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/23JUN10//
REF/B/DOC/SECDEF WASHINGTON DC/30NOV16//
REF/C/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/14APR22/NOTAL//
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/141554ZJAN15//
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/APR23//
REF/F/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/08JAN15//
REF/G/DOC/DEPSECDEF WASHINGTON DC/24JAN19//
REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/081821ZOCT21//
REF/I/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/17JAN20//
REF/J/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/26JUN08//

NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowships, 
Graduate Education Programs, and Community Sponsorship.
Ref B is DODINST 1323.23, Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF).
Ref C is Memorandum for the Record: Federal Executive Host Institutions for 
Academic Years 2023-2024 and 2024-2025.
Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, Establishment of the Naval Strategy Subspecialty 
2300X.
Ref E is NAVPERS 15839I, Manual of Navy Officer Manpower and Personnel 
Classifications, Vol I, dtd April 2023.
Ref F is OPNAVINST 1520.24D, Officer Scholarship Program.
Ref G is Office of the Deputy Secretary of Defense Directive-type Memorandum 
(DTM)-19-001, Establishment of the Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers 
Program.
Ref H is NAVADMIN 223/21, Update to Senior Officer Graduate Education 
Requirements.
Ref I is OPNAVINST 1520.23C CH-3, Graduate Education.
Ref J is Memorandum for Council on Foreign Relations Fellows:
Council on Foreign Relations Fellowship Charter.//

RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN is the call for applications for the Academic Year (AY) 
2024-2025 strategist and national security fellowships and civilian graduate 
education scholarship programs, and for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 Olmsted 
Scholar Program.

2. Per reference (a), these programs are a primary means for developing naval 
strategists through exposure and learning opportunities at leading think 
tanks, academic institutions, and with industry partners.
  a. Talented officers who complete these programs form a cadre of naval 
strategists able to leverage their experiences and the key relationships they 
have established to actively contribute toward efforts to improve Navy 
warfighting advantage.
  b. Type Commanders and community managers are encouraged to identify 
quality candidates and encourage these future leaders to apply to these 
competitive programs.
  c. Applicable programs include:
   (1) Secretary of Defense Executive Fellowship (SDEF) Program
   (2) CNO's Fellowship at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR)
   (3) Hudson Fellowship Program, University of Oxford
   (4) Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF) Program
   (5) Arthur S. Moreau (ASM) Program
   (6) Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program (SD STP)
   (7) Politico-Military Master's (PMM) Program
   (8) Olmsted Scholar Program.

3. AY2024-25 applications are due to Navy Personnel Command NLT 01 September 
2023. All supplemental information to the selection board must be received 
NLT 22 September 2023.
The selection board will convene in early November 2023.
Results will be announced no later than December 2023.
  a. Officers may apply for all programs for which they meet the eligibility 
requirements via a single application. Annotate which programs you are 
applying for in the subject line of your application.
  b. Please read program descriptions in their entirety.
Unique or additional application and selection requirements are set forth in 
subparagraph 'b' of each section.
  c. Applications require a personal statement to the board, a curriculum 
vitae, biography, and endorsement letters from both your commanding officer 
and detailer, plus any unique or additional requirements specified for each 
program. Send requests for application forms and any questions to the OPNAV
N712 or PERS 443 POCs listed in this NAVADMIN.
  d. Service obligation is defined in individual program descriptions below. 
Most of these programs incur a service obligation of three times (3x) the 
number of months served in the program (normally 10-12 months), for a 30-36 
month obligation.
  e. Interested officers should submit applications for all programs via 
encrypted email or DoD SAFE to the PERS 443 and OPNAV N712 POCs listed in 
this NAVADMIN. Prior to submission, ensure electronic copies are clear, 
legible, and properly endorsed.
  f. Additional information on graduate education and fellowship programs can 
be found in the program descriptions below and at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-qualifications/
e-graduate-education-and-fellowship-programs.

4. Secretary of Defense Executive Fellowship Program: This is a fellowship 
program and does not confer a degree. This program provides a venue for 
exceptional officers to experience innovative business practices within the 
nation's leading business enterprises.
Military fellows from each of the Services are paired with senior executives 
in various companies known for their willingness to challenge and adapt their 
business practices. A successful SDEF tour combined with any previous or 
future non-resident master's degree from an accredited university will 
satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement for major command 
(see reference (h)).
  a. Eligibility: All active duty O5-O6 officers are eligible to apply. 
Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) officers are not eligible. 
Related graduate education and staff experience preferred.
  b. Program information: Four (4) Navy officers will be selected for the 
AY24-25 program by the PERS selection board. Fellowships will begin in July 
2024. Past fellows were assigned to corporations such as 3M, Apple, Amazon, 
Boeing, Caterpillar, Cisco Systems, Exxon Mobil, J.P. Morgan Chase, FedEx, 
General Dynamics, Google, Intel, Lockheed Martin, Merck, Microsoft, Morgan 
Stanley, SalesForce, and SpaceX.
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: SDEF graduates incur a service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship. 
SDEF tours are normally 12 months in length, depending on the required 
detachment for the next duty station.
SDEFs will be assigned to a follow-on billet focused on innovation and 
transformation as soon as possible, but not later than the second subsequent 
shore tour. Some officers may serve in multiple such positions after the 
fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis 
with command or milestone tours.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: All officers who 
complete the SDEF program will receive the 2000S subspecialty code and the 
24F AQD code.

5. CNO's Fellowship at the Council on Foreign Relations: This is a fellowship 
program and does not confer a degree. The purpose of the CNO's Fellowship at 
the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) is to provide senior-level officers 
the opportunity to increase their understanding of policy development and 
decision making at the highest levels of government by participating as 
Fellows at CFR.
A successful CFR tour combined with any previous or future non-resident 
master's degree from an accredited university will satisfy the in-residence 
graduate education requirement for major command (see reference (h)).
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O6 (and O6 select) Unrestricted Line (URL) and 
Restricted Line (RL) officers are eligible to apply.
TAR officers are not eligible. Applicants should have a master's degree. A 
graduate degree in national security affairs, international relations, 
strategy, or related discipline is preferred. The ideal candidate should 
possess a diverse background of warfare and academic excellence as well as 
politico-military experience and a penchant for international affairs. The 
candidate should also have flag potential to allow for reutilization and 
provide maximum benefit to the Navy.
  b. Program information: The CNO's Fellowship at CFR will begin in August 
2024 following a two-week orientation course at the Pentagon.
Three (3) nominees will be selected by the PERS selection board.
OPNAV N7 will submit the nominees to CNO, who will personally select the one 
(1) officer who will serve as the CNO's Fellow at CFR.
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: CNO Fellows at CFR incur service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship.
CNO's Fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months. The CNO's Fellow will serve 
at least one utilization tour in a validated naval strategist billet as soon 
as possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore tour. Some 
officers may serve in multiple strategy positions after the fellowship tour, 
subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or 
milestone tours.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: URL officers who 
complete the CNO's Fellowship at CFR will receive the 2300S subspecialty code 
and the 24E AQD code. RL officers will receive the 2000S subspecialty code 
and the 24E AQD code.

6. Hudson Fellowship Program, University of Oxford: This is a fellowship 
program and does not confer a degree. Hosted by St. Antony's College at the 
University of Oxford, the Hudson Fellow will attend the Changing Character of 
War (CCW) program, led by the History Faculty at Oxford.
CCW brings together representatives of the United Kingdom Armed Forces, 
Government, and multi-national organizations to provide practical knowledge 
in the interdisciplinary study of war and armed conflict.
A successful Hudson tour combined with any previous or future non-resident 
master's degree from an accredited university will satisfy the in-residence 
graduate education requirement for major command (see reference (h)).
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O5-O6 URL, and RL officers in designators 1710, 
1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. The University of Oxford 
prefers post-command officers. TAR officers are not eligible.
Applicant must have a master's degree. A graduate degree in national security 
affairs, international relations, strategy, or related discipline is 
preferred.
  b. Program information: The Hudson Fellowship will begin in August
2024 following a two-week orientation course at the Pentagon. One
(1) primary and two (2) alternate nominees will be selected by the PERS 
selection board. Their names, CV, biography, and research proposal will be 
submitted by OPNAV N7 to the University of Oxford for final selection of the 
one (1) fellow for AY24-25. Applicants for the Hudson Fellowship must include 
a 2-page research proposal with their application.
The Oxford research proposal template can be requested from the OPNAV N712 
POCs listed in this NAVADMIN.
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: Hudson fellows incur a service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship.
Hudson fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months. The Hudson Fellow will 
serve at least one utilization tour in a validated naval strategist billet as 
soon as possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore tour. Some 
officers may serve in multiple strategy positions after the fellowship tour, 
subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or 
milestone tours.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: URL officers who 
complete the Hudson Fellowship will receive the 2300S subspecialty code and 
the 24D AQD code. RL officers will receive the 2000S subspecialty code and 
the 24D AQD code.

7. Federal Executive Fellowship Program: This is a fellowship program and 
does not confer a degree. The FEF program provides selected due-course 
officers an opportunity to improve their understanding of the national 
security decision-making process through a one-year assignment at a world-
class research organization or academic institution. Fellows will serve 
follow-on tours in a number of critical strategy, policy, national security 
decision-making, and international engagement billets on major Joint and Navy 
staffs. A successful FEF tour combined with any previous or future non-
resident master's degree from an accredited university will satisfy the in-
residence graduate education requirement for major command (see reference 
(h)).
  a. Eligibility: Active Duty O4-O6 URL, and RL officers in designators 1710, 
1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. TAR officers are eligible 
for the FEF program. Applicants should have a graduate degree.
A graduate degree in national security affairs, international relations, 
strategy, or related discipline is preferred.
  b. Program information: Thirteen (13) officers will be selected for the
AY24-25 Federal Executive Fellowship program by the PERS selection board.
The fellowships will begin in August 2024 following a two-week orientation 
course at the Pentagon. One naval officer will be assigned to each of the 
thirteen FEF institutions, which include:
   (1) Atlantic Council, Washington, DC
   (2) Carnegie Mellon University, Institute for Politics and Strategy, 
Pittsburgh, PA
   (3) Center for a New American Security (CNAS), Washington, DC
   (4) Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Washington, DC. 
The CSIS fellow will also serve as an adjunct fellow at the United States 
Naval Institute (USNI), Annapolis, MD.
   (5) Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Chicago, IL
   (6) Georgia Institute of Technology, Sam Nunn School of International 
Affairs, Atlanta, GA
   (7) Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Belfer 
Center for Science and International Affairs, Cambridge, MA
   (8) Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA), Alexandria, VA
   (9) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Security Studies Program, 
Cambridge, MA
   (10) Stanford University, Hoover Institution, Stanford, CA
   (11) Stimson Center, Washington, DC
   (12) Tufts University, The Fletcher School, Medford, MA
   (13) University of Texas at Austin, Clements Center for National Security, 
Austin, TX
  c. Reutilization/service obligation: Federal Executive Fellows incur a 
service obligation three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship. 
FEF tours are normally 10-12 months. FEFs will serve at least one utilization 
tour in a validated naval strategist billet on a major Navy, Joint, or OSD 
staff as soon as possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore 
tour. Some officers may serve in multiple strategy positions after the 
fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis 
with command or milestone tours.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: URL officers who 
complete a FEF tour will receive the 2300S Naval Strategy subspecialty code 
and the 24C AQD code. RL officers will receive the 2000S National Security 
Studies subspecialty code and the 24C AQD code.

8. Arthur S. Moreau Program: This program leads to a doctoral degree (PhD).
The ASM program is a two-year program for candidates seeking to complete a 
PhD or to achieve an 'All But Dissertation' status in a politico-military 
related field. The ASM program satisfies the in-residence graduate education 
requirement for major command (see reference (h)).
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O5, URL-only are eligible to apply.
This includes O3s selected for O4 who will be promoted prior to the start of 
the academic year (July-August 2024). TAR officers are not eligible. ASM 
candidates must already possess a master's degree in a politico-military 
related field such as national security affairs, international relations, 
strategy, or related discipline.
  b. Program Information: One (1) officer may be selected for the ASM 
program. The selected officer in the ASM program will carry a full academic 
load during the academic year. The approved AY24-25 institutions are listed 
below. GRE scores are optional for inclusion in the application package, but 
may be required for university admission.
   (1) Harvard University, Boston, MA: John F. Kennedy School of Government.
   (2) Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC: School of Advanced 
International Studies.
   (3) Princeton University, Princeton, NJ: Princeton School of Public and 
International Affairs.
   (4) Tufts University, Medford, MA: The Fletcher School.
   (5) University of California, San Diego (UCSD), San Diego, CA:
School of Global Policy and Strategy.
   (6) University of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Department of Political Science.
   (7) University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA: Department of Politics.
   (8) University of Washington, Seattle, WA: Henry M. Jackson School of 
International Studies.
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: ASM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program, up to 72 months total. ASM graduates will serve at least one tour in 
a validated naval strategist subspecialty billet, subject to career timing 
and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or milestone tours.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: ASM graduates will earn 
either the 2300P or the 2300D Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 24B 
AQD code. The Education Plan (EP) for ASM officers must be in compliance with 
the 2300P ESRs.

9. Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program: This program confers a 
Master's degree in International Public Policy (MIPP). The SD STP program is 
a one-year master's program at the Johns Hopkins University School of 
Advanced International Studies (JHU SAIS) campus in Washington, DC, where 
students will develop advanced analytical and strategic thinking skills. The 
SD STP program satisfies the in-residence graduate education requirement for 
major command (see reference (h)).
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O5 URL, and RL officers in designators 1810, 
1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. TAR officers are not eligible. 
Per reference (g), completion of JPME I and graduation in the top 20 percent 
of one's JPME class (or a favorable letter of recommendation from a 
professor, if a distance-learning course) is required. A minimum of ten years 
of active duty service is required. Officers who have already participated in 
Department of Defense-funded graduate education programs are not eligible. 
Those officers who earned a degree through the Tuition Assistance Program or 
a Service or Joint War College retain their eligibility for SD STP and do not 
need a waiver (see reference (i)).
  b. Program information: Two (2) Navy officers will be selected for the
AY24-25 program by the PERS selection board. OSD will review the Navy 
selections and make the final approval. SD STP selectees will carry a full 
academic load during the academic year. Additional information can be found 
at https://sais.jhu.edu/admissions/masters-program-admissions/
how-apply/us-military-and-veteran-applicants/strategic.
GRE scores are optional for inclusion in the application package, but may be 
required for admission to JHU SAIS. Proof of JPME I completion (as described 
in paragraph 9.a.) must be submitted as part of the application package.
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: SD STP graduates will incur a service 
obligation of a minimum of 24 months following completion of the SD STP 
program. Upon graduation, SD STP students will be considered for follow-on 
assignments that utilize their special knowledge and skills gained through 
the completion of the program.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: SD STP URL graduates 
will earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 223 AQD code.
SD STP IWC graduates will earn the 2000P subspecialty code and the 223 AQD 
code.

10. Politico-Military Master's Program: This program confers a master's 
degree. The PMM program provides officers a graduate education in strategy 
and politico-military affairs at leading civilian universities.
The PMM program is a key component of the Navy Strategic Enterprise, 
educating naval strategists who will be utilized in subsequent strategy and 
policy-related billets. The PMM program satisfies the in-residence graduate 
education requirement for major command (see reference (h)).
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O3-O5 URL, and RL officers in designators 1710, 
1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. This includes O2s selected 
for O3 and who will be promoted prior to the start of the academic year 
(July-August 2024). Preference will be given to junior officers (O3-O4). TAR 
officers are not eligible. Officers who have already participated in a 
Department of Defense-funded graduate education program are not eligible. 
Those officers who earned a degree through the Tuition Assistance Program or 
Service or a Joint War College retain their eligibility for PMM and do not 
need a waiver (see reference (i)).
  b. Program information: Eight (8) officers will be selected for the one-
year PMM program. Selected officers will carry a full academic load during 
the academic year. The approved AY24-25 institutions and their associated 
degree programs are listed below. GRE scores are optional for inclusion in 
the application package, but may be required for university admission.
   (1) Harvard University, Boston, MA: Mid-Career Master in Public 
Administration, John F. Kennedy School of Government.
   (2) Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC: Master of International 
Public Policy, School of Advanced International Studies.
   (3) Princeton University, Princeton, NJ: Master in Public Policy
(MPP) - International Relations, Princeton School of Public and International 
Affairs.
   (4) Tufts University, Medford, MA: Master of Arts, The Fletcher School.
   (5) University of California, San Diego (UCSD), San Diego, CA:
Master of Advanced Studies in International Affairs (MAS-IA), School of 
Global Policy and Strategy.
   (6) University of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Master of Arts, Committee on 
International Relations.
   (7) University of Washington, Seattle, WA: Executive Master of 
International Studies, Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies.
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: PMM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program, up to 36 months total.
PMM graduates will serve at least one tour in a validated naval strategist 
billet, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command 
or milestone tours.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: PMM URL graduates will 
earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty and the 24A AQD codes. The 
Education Plan (EP) for URL PMM students must be in compliance with the 2300P 
ESRs. PMM RL graduates will earn the 2000P National Security Studies 
subspecialty code and the 24A AQD code. The EP for RL PMM students must be in 
compliance with the 2000P ESRs.

11. Olmsted Scholars: This program may confer a master's degree, and may also 
satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement for major command 
(see reference (h)). The Olmsted Scholar Program offers outstanding young 
military leaders an unsurpassed opportunity to achieve fluency in a foreign 
language, pursue graduate study at an overseas university and acquire an in-
depth understanding of foreign cultures, thereby equipping them to serve in 
positions of greater responsibility as senior leaders. This unique 
scholarship opportunity supports the DoD emphasis on developing language 
skills and regional cultural knowledge across the force.
  a. Eligibility: All active duty officers with the designators 1110, 1120, 
1130, 1140, 1310, 1320, 1810, 1820, 1830, or 3100 with at least three years 
of Active Federal Commissioned Service (AFCS) and no more than 13.5 years of 
total Active Federal Service (AFS), with both periods of service calculated 
as of 01 April 2024, are eligible to apply.
  b. Program Information: The Navy is seeking applicants who display the 
warfighting and intellectual qualities of dedicated career officers who 
aspire to command. Applicants should be available to commence language 
training in summer/fall 2024 at the Defense Language Institute Foreign 
Language Center in Monterey, CA or Washington, DC, begin two years of study 
at a foreign university in 2025 and complete their studies in 2027.
Olmsted notifications will occur in two phases. Navy nominees will be 
notified via email following the Navy selection board in November 2023.
Scholars selected by the Olmsted Foundation Board of Directors will be 
notified via email following the selection board in March 2024.
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: Olmsted Scholars incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program and will be calculated based on the number of months the officer is 
assigned overseas.
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: Olmsted scholars will 
earn the 219 AQD code.  Additionally, if they complete a degree in a 
politico-military field they may earn a 2XXXP subspecialty code and become 
eligible to fill validated subspecialty-coded billets.
  e. Additional Application Information: Applications for the FY25 Olmsted 
program are separate and distinct from the application for the other programs 
covered by this NAVADMIN. Applications must be prepared in accordance with 
enclosure (2) of reference (f); detailer endorsements are required and should 
be prepared according to enclosure (3) of reference (f). Both should be 
submitted via email NLT 01 September 2023 to the Navy Olmsted Scholar Program 
Manager and PERS 443 POCs listed at the end of this NAVADMIN. DLAB and GRE 
scores must be submitted as part of the application package. Official college 
transcripts may be submitted via the institution to the Olmsted Scholar 
Program Manager, which must also be received no later than 01 September 2023. 
Detailed information on application requirements, sample application 
template, and Frequently Asked Questions are located on the Navy College 
website at https://www.navycollege.navy.mil/sailors/other-navy-programs.htm.

12. Points of Contact: Contact the POCs listed below for program-specific 
details and questions.
  a. OPNAV: Ms. Jennifer Rigdon Teter, N712 Deputy Branch Head, 703-692-1934, 
jennifer.c.rigdonteter.civ@us.navy.mil; Ms. Hannah Olivieri, N712 Contract 
Support, 703-695-5461, Hannah.g.olivieri.ctr@us.navy.mil.
  b. NAVPERSCOM: LT Jacob Jepsen, PERS 443, 901-874-3996, 
jacob.a.jepsen.mil@us.navy.mil.
  c. OLMSTED: Ms. Elise McGuire, Navy Olmsted Scholar Program Manager, 850-
473-6064, elise.t.mcguire.civ@us.navy.mil.

13. Released by VADM J. W. Hughes, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Warfighting Development (N7).//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

