UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 201138Z AUG 20 MID510001664074U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO USCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
COMFLTCYBERCOM FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
DIRNSA FT GEORGE G MEADE MD
CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 234/20

SUBJ/CALL FOR APPLICANTS FOR THE COMPUTER NETWORK OPERATIONS DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM (CNODP) CLASS OF 2024//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/AUG//
REF/A/DOC/NSA/16JUL20/NOTAL//

AMPN/REF A IS UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND (USCC) AND NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
(NSA) CALL FOR APPLICANTS FOR THE CNODP CLASS OF 2024// 
POC/WILLIAM LOVEJOY/FCC-C10F N13/TEL: (443) 634-4586 
EMAIL: USFF_FCC_C10F_NSAH_CNODP(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This is the annual call for the Computer Network Operations 
Development Program (CNODP), Class of 2024.  The CNODP is comprised of the 
National Security Agency (NSA) System and Network Inter- disciplinary Program 
(SNIP) and the United States Cyber Command (USCC) Joint Cyber Development 
Program (JCDP).  This is an opportunity for a select group of highly 
technically inclined individuals to develop capabilities and tools required 
for Computer Network Operations (CNO) and to further develop their skills in 
the areas of secure system design, vulnerability analysis, Computer Network 
Defense (CND), and Computer Network Exploitation (CNE).  The goal of the 
program is to develop a cadre of technical leaders who will improve 
Department of Defense (DoD) and Department of the Navy (DoN) Computer Network 
Operations (CNO) capabilities with hands-on work solving new, current, and 
ongoing issues related to CNO.  The program is a technically demanding three-
year internship tailored to each applicant to best capitalize on individual 
expertise.
CNODP Class of 2024 is expected to start on 12 July 2021 with a Report No 
Later Than (RNLT) date of 26 April 2021 to allow sufficient time for in-
processing, orientation, and security clearance processing.
The first three months of the program includes mandatory core training; non-
emergency leave will not be approved during core training.  Core training is 
followed by a thirty-month period where CNODP interns work alongside 
experienced experts.  CNODP concludes with a three-month final project where 
members develop solutions to challenging problems impacting the CNO 
community.

2.  Ideal CNODP candidates will have many of the following
qualifications:
    a.  Bachelor's degree plus advanced courses or equivalent experience in 
the areas of computer engineering, computer science, electronic and 
electrical engineering, or applied mathematics.
    b.  Exceptional academic performance and professional accomplishments, as 
well as a demonstrated interest in and ability to perform technically 
oriented, hands-on work.
    c.  Well-developed oral and written communication skills.
    d.  Working knowledge in one or more telecommunications or computer 
network disciplines (computer hardware, software, or networks).
    e.  Well-qualified officers (O3 and below), enlisted (E7 and below) and 
Warrant Officers (all ranks).  Previous assignments should include experience 
in CNO, signal intelligence (SIGINT) collection operations, information 
security (INFOSEC)/information assurance (IA), and/or research and 
development (R&D).
    f.  Demonstrated programming skills in C or C++, Python and some assembly 
are required.
    g.  Selected applicants must possess a TS/SCI security clearance and a 
current counter-intelligence (CI) polygraph prior to the projected class 
start date of 12 July 2021.

3.  Caveats:
    a.  A three (3) year commitment is required upon graduation to fulfill 
follow-on tour requirement.
    b.  Applicants must contact their detailer for counseling on the career 
impact of participation in the CNODP program.
    c.  Civilian applicants must have concurrence from their respective 
command and all PCS and associated costs are the responsibility of each 
command.
    d.  All applicants must have the ability to continue service for six (6) 
years from program start date.

4.  Please ensure widest dissemination to include, cryptologic, intelligence, 
communications and computer science, scientific, engineering, acquisition, 
and operations fields.

5.  Selection will be based on a thorough FCC/C10F review and ranking of each 
application package, followed with an interview of the top applicants by the 
USCC and NSA selection board. The application package shall include the 
following:
    a.  Documentation that demonstrates service performance and technical 
competency.
        (1) Officer: Academic Transcripts, ODC, OSR, complete PSR, and an 
optional subset of your fitness reports.
        (2) Enlisted: Academic Transcripts, ESR, complete PSR, and 
evaluations detailing technical competence.
        (3) Civilian: Academic Transcripts and any performance assessments 
detailing technical competence.
    b.  A career impact and endorsement letter from applicant's detailer.
    c.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's Commanding Officer.
    d.  Letter of recommendation from the applicant's supervisor attesting to 
his/her technical skills and abilities.
    e.  An optional letter of recommendation at the applicant's discretion.
    f.  A letter from the applicant (two pages or less) answering the
following:
        (1) Why do you think that CNODP is the right choice for you?
What goals do you wish to accomplish in CNODP?  Do you have a preference for 
NSA SNIP or USCC JCDP program?  If so, why?
        (2) Detail your experience with programming/software engineering, to 
include programming language(s) (degree of familiarity, breadth of 
knowledge/duration of use, and when it was last used).  Only include 
languages for which you have actually written (or substantially modified) 
code.  Include any and all: assembly, hardware-based, high-level, and 
scripting languages.
        (3) Other than programming language expertise listed above, how does 
your experience and training relate to the core fields (hardware, software, 
and networks)?
        (4) Teaming:  Describe a positive teaming experience that you have 
had.  Describe your role on the team and how you contributed. You may include 
experiences from work or school.
        (5) Technical experience:  Describe an unclassified project that best 
exemplifies your technical development activities and experiences.  Tell us 
the technical details of your contributions to that project, highlighting 
your strengths and weaknesses.
The project can be work, home, or school related.
        (6) Self-directed:  Give one example of a project where you worked by 
yourself with very little guidance.  Briefly describe what you accomplished, 
how you approached the problem, and how you liked/disliked working in that 
capacity.
        (7) NAVPERS 1070/613 that includes the following verbiage:
"I understand that my acceptance of admission into the Computer Network 
Operations Development Program obligates me to serve on Active Duty for a 
period of six years following the commencement of the program.  If I elect to 
leave the program early, I am obligated to serve on Active Duty for a period 
of one month for every one month served in the program, commencing upon 
voluntary program termination."  Applicants who fail to include the NAVPERS 
1070/613 with their nomination package will not be considered. Enlisted 
personnel who fail to OBLISERV for six years prior to program start will not 
be allowed to begin the program.

6.  Commands are encouraged to nominate their best-qualified individuals for 
this voluntary program.  This is an outstanding opportunity to provide future 
technical leaders with the necessary skills needed to lead the Navy in this 
vital area.

7.  Send applications to the U.S. Fleet Cyber Command/U.S. TENTH Fleet, Point 
of Contact (POC):  William Lovejoy, usff_fcc_c10f_nsah_cnodp(at)navy.mil NLT 
13 September 2020 for review and prioritization.  Nominating organizations 
are expected to pay travel/per diem costs for necessary travel associated 
with interviews, which will occur in the November 2020 - January 2021 time 
frame; video conferencing will be used wherever necessary.

8.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
