UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 311853Z AUG 21 MID200001090891U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 183/21
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG//

SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM POLICY UPDATE//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/01JAN03//
NARR/REF A IS NAVPERS 15665I, U.S. NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the update of several uniform and grooming 
standards and the issuance of NAVPERS 15665J, Navy Uniform Regulations, which 
will replace reference (a) in order to incorporate these changes, previous 
policy changes, correct noted policy discrepancies and provide updated policy 
guidance and verbiage to clarify uniform and grooming standards.  Navy 
Uniform Regulations are issued by the direction of the Chief of Naval 
Operations and carry the force of a general order.  Navy Uniform Regulations 
apply to all Sailors equally, regardless of their rank, grade, positions 
held, ethnicity or community assigned.  Any difference between male and 
female grooming policies recognizes the differences between the genders.

2.  Navy Uniform Regulations are continuously reviewed for policy 
applicability, accuracy, clarity and comprehension.  Navy uniform policy 
updates directly support Sailor 2025 objectives to attract and retain the 
very best Sailors by finding greater flexibility in our policies and 
practices, including uniforms.  Navy uniform policy updates are the result of 
Fleet feedback, uniform working group discussions, command sponsored requests 
and direction from Navy leadership.

3.  The following uniform and grooming policy changes are effective as 
stated:
    a.  Earrings.  Effective immediately.  Male Sailors are authorized to 
wear earrings while in a leave or liberty status when wearing civilian 
clothes on and off military installations and when using government 
transportation, unless prohibited by proper authority.  Earrings are not 
authorized when wearing civilian clothing while performing official duties.
    b.  Male Hair Grooming.  Effective immediately.  Male Sailors hair 
grooming standards are expanded to include bald, flat tops, faded and high 
and tight hairstyles.  Hairstyles may also have squared or rounded gradual 
tapers in the back of the head.  When sideburns are worn, the hair length of 
the sideburns will not exceed the hair length where it intersects with the 
haircut.  Overall sideburn length limits remain unchanged and sideburns are 
not authorized with bald hairstyles.
    c.  Medical and Religious Waivered Beards.  Effective immediately.  Male 
Sailors with an approved modified shaving regimen in line with BUPERSINST 
1000.22 or an approved religious accommodation to wear a beard in line with 
BUPERSINST 1730.11 are authorized to optionally edge (outline or shape) the 
outer edges of their beards on the face and neck.  Edging, outlining or 
shaping of beards is defined as the light clipping or trimming of hair at the 
very outer edges of the beard to give a shaped appearance.  If irritation, 
discomfort or skin outbreak occurs, immediately discontinue edging/outlining 
the beard.
    d.  Female Hair Grooming.  Effective immediately.  Female hair grooming 
standards are expanded to authorize very short length hairstyles that show 
the scalp.  Overall, very short length hairstyles will not exceed two inches 
in bulk and four inches in length anywhere on the head.  Very short length 
hairstyles may also include a taper at the back and side of the head and one 
straight fore and aft hard part.  The lower edge of tapers may be rounded, 
squared or shapeless.  Tapers will extend from the lower hairline at the back 
and side of the head upward to facilitate gradual blending with longer hair 
lengths.  Hard parts are optional and will not exceed four inches in length 
and one-eighth of an inch in width.  One hard part may be edged, shaved or 
clipped on the left or right side of the head, positioned above the temple, 
but no higher than the approximate area where the top and side of the head 
meet.  Bald hairstyles (razor cut or shaved short) remain unauthorized except 
in the case of medically prescribed treatments and required care.
    e.  Medically-Prescribed Head Coverings.  Effective 30 days from the 
release of this message.  Male and female Sailors undergoing medically-
prescribed health treatment or care that results in a drastic loss of hair, 
or the scalp becomes too sensitive to wear wigs/hair pieces, military covers, 
protective head gear or equipment are authorized to wear fabric head 
coverings (solid colors of black, khaki/tan, navy blue or white).  Medically 
prescribed head coverings will match the color of the military cover 
prescribed for wear with the uniform being worn.  The need to wear fabric 
head coverings must be medically documented and prescribed by appropriate 
military healthcare providers.
    f.  Accented Names.  Effective immediately.  Sailors whose legal names 
contain accents are authorized to include and display those accents in the 
name tags, name patches or name tapes while wearing a uniform.
    g.  Navy Working Uniform Type II and III (NWU II/III) Manner and Occasion 
of Wear.  Effective immediately.  Sailors may optionally wear one or two 
shoulder patches when wearing the NWU Type II/III.
When wearing one or two shoulder patches, the Reverse U.S. Flag patch will be 
worn on the right shoulder pocket flap.  Patches worn on the left pocket flap 
will be an authorized shoulder patch (Command/Unit Logos or Don't Tread on 
Me).  Shoulder patches remain optional for personal purchase and wear with 
the NWU Type II/III.  Command mandated shoulder patches will be procured and 
issued by the command directing its wear.  NWU shoulder patches may be either 
laser cut or of embroidered construction.
    h.  Military Covers Worn in Privately Owned Vehicles (POV).
Effective immediately.  The requirement to wear a cover while in uniform when 
entering, exiting and driving on military installations in a POV is 
rescinded.  As a military courtesy, covers should be worn by the driver of a 
POV when entering a military installation if required to return a salute.  
Covers will remain worn when in uniform while transiting in military or 
government vehicles unless impractical for safety or security reasons.
    i.  Female Dress Shoes (Pumps).  Effective immediately.  The authorized 
maximum heel height for female dress shoes (pumps) is increased from two and 
5/8 inches to three inches.  Three inch heels are considered the maximum heel 
height worn in professional work or business environments.  Commercially 
procured shoes are authorized provided they conform to the guidelines 
specified in reference (a) for authorized shoe wear in uniform.
    j.  Male Swimwear.  Effective immediately.  Authorized male swimwear when 
conducting physical training or the semi-annual Physical Readiness Test is 
expanded to include performance/ competition swimwear.
    k.  Command Insignia.  Effective immediately.  Authorization to wear the 
incumbent Command Insignia has been extended to include all eligible 
officers.  This policy change authorizes eligible flag officers to wear the 
appropriate Command Insignia in the incumbent position on Navy uniforms.  
Only one incumbent Command Insignia may be worn on the uniform.
    l.  Dual ID Badge Optional Wear (e.g. Joint Staff, OSD, etc.).
Effective 30 days from the release of this message.  The optional wear of two 
ID badges is approved for all eligible Sailors.  Dual ID badge wear is 
authorized on all Service, Service Dress, Full Dress and Dinner/Formal Dress 
uniforms.
        (1) Manner of wear for men.  On uniforms with pocket flaps, center 
one badge on each pocket between the lower point of the flap and bottom of 
the pocket, midway between the sides.  On pockets without flaps, center one 
badge on each pocket.  On Full Dress Uniforms, center the ID badge on the 
right in a position corresponding to the level of the ID badge on the left.  
On Dinner/Formal Dress Uniforms, Sailors may place two ID badges on the right 
breast area of the uniform, so that the badges are upright and the bottom of 
the badges are aligned with the top of the lowest row of miniature medals, 
place a one-eighth to one-fourth of an inch gap between the badges.
        (2) Manner of wear for women.  To provide equal visibility of ID 
badges worn on female uniforms, ID badges will be worn on the right side of 
the uniform.  On pockets with flaps, center ID badges next to each other, 
horizontally, one-fourth of an inch above the right pocket or one-fourth of 
an inch above the name tag or ribbons (for Full Dress).  For uniforms without 
pockets or pocket flaps, place the ID badges in the same relative location as 
in the manner of wear of uniforms with pocket flaps.  If maximum visibility 
is not achieved when placing the ID badges above the pocket, female Sailors 
may optionally wear two ID badges one-fourth inch below the top of the pocket 
or same relative area corresponding to uniforms without pockets.  On 
Dinner/Formal Dress Uniforms, Sailors may place two ID badges on the right 
breast area of the uniform, so that the badges are upright and the bottom of 
the badges are aligned with the top of the lowest row of miniature medals, 
place a one-eighth to one-fourth of an inch gap between the badges.
    m.  Prescription Eyeglasses.  Effective 60 days from the release of this 
message.  Authorized prescription eyeglasses and frames worn in uniform must 
be silver/gray, black, brown, navy blue, gold or clear/translucent.  The 
frame around the lens can be of a different but authorized color.  Frame 
color can also consist of a combination of two authorized colors.  
Prescription glasses with transitional lenses are authorized except in 
military formations.  When medically prescribed, other tints are authorized 
when documented and medically prescribed by the proper military medical care 
provider.  Retainer straps may also be worn for foreign object debris (FOD) 
prevention only and will be black in color and worn snugly against the head.
When not in use, eyeglasses will not be worn on top of the head or hanging 
around or off the neck.  Sailors on deployment on the date of this message 
will have up to 60 days upon returning to homeport to comply with this 
policy.
    n.  Sunglasses.  Effective 60 days from the release of this message.  
Authorized sunglasses worn with the uniform must have solid color frames that 
may be silver/gray, black, navy blue, brown, tan, gold or green.  The frame 
around the lens can be of a different but authorized color.  Lenses will be 
non-mirrored, black, brown, dark green or dark grey.  Sunglasses may have 
small logos on the frame and/or lens.  Retainer straps may also be worn for 
FOD prevention only and will be black in color and worn snugly against the 
head.
When not in use, sunglasses will not be worn on top of the head or hanging 
around or off the neck.  Sailors on deployment on the date of this message 
will have up to 60 days upon returning to homeport to comply with this 
policy.
    o.  Bracelets, Wristwatches, Smartwatches and Fitness Trackers.
Effective 60 days from the release of this message.  Wristwatch wear in 
uniform is expanded to include smartwatches and fitness trackers.
Only one wristwatch/smartwatch and one fitness tracker can be worn 
simultaneously and each on a different wrist.  When wearing a bracelet, a 
wristwatch/smartwatch or fitness tracker is not authorized on the same wrist 
as the bracelet.  Authorized wristwatches/smartwatches and fitness tracker 
colors when wearing a Navy uniform include solid black, brown, dark green, 
grey, navy blue, tan, white, copper, gold (metal), silver (metal) and 
gold/silver combination (metal) only.  Smartwatches and fitness trackers are 
subject to applicable security regulations.  Bracelets worn while in uniform 
may consist of natural metals or fabricated materials (e.g., plastic, wood, 
silicone or stone) and may be solid black, brown, dark green, grey, navy 
blue, tan, white, copper, gold and silver only.

4.  All policy updates will be incorporated in the appropriate chapters and 
sections of NAVPERS 15665J as part of the new issuance of Navy Uniform 
Regulations.

5.  Questions regarding this NAVADMIN should be addressed to Mr.
Robert B. Carroll, Navy Uniform Matters and Emerging Issues Branch (OPNAV 
N13X), robert.b.carroll(at)navy.mil, ETCM(SW/AW/EXW) Richard Baumert, Deputy 
Branch Head, richard.baumert(at)navy.mil or ETC(SW) Ryan P. Cameron at 
ryan.p.cameron(at)navy.mil.

6.  Feedback and recommendations regarding uniform policy, uniform components 
and uniform availability are welcomed and can be provided via MyNavy Portal 
at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/, select Professional Resources, U.S. Navy 
Uniforms and *Ask The Chiefs.*  Feedback can also be provided via the MyNavy 
UNIFORMS App.

7.  Retain this NAVADMIN until policy changes are incorporated in Navy 
Uniform Regulations, superseded or cancelled, whichever occurs first.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

