UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 301815Z SEP 20 MID200000169554U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 267/20 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/PASSING OF ADMIRAL CARLISLE ALBERT HERMAN TROST, USN (RET), 23RD CHIEF 
OF NAVAL OPERATIONS// 
 
RMKS/1.  It is with deep sadness that I report the passing of Admiral 
Carlisle A. H. Trost, USN, on 29 September, 2020.  Admiral Trost served our 
Navy with honor and distinction for 37 years, culminating in his appointment 
as the 23rd Chief of Naval Operations.  He led the Navy from 1986 to 1990, 
during a period of profound change, marked by the fall of the Berlin Wall and 
the transition of the Navy into the post-Cold War world. During that time, he 
confronted growing tension in the Middle East stemming from the Iran-Iraq War 
and maintained a vigilant watch on the Soviet Navy during a time of 
significant uncertainty. 
Through Admiral Trost's guidance and perseverance, the Navy maintained global 
maritime superiority and prevailed in operations spanning from the Persian 
Gulf to Panama. 
 
2.  Admiral Trost's long tenure of service was marked by competition with the 
Soviet Union for control of the seas, personifying our values of honor, 
courage, and commitment.  He graduated first in his class at the Naval 
Academy in 1953 in the early days of the Cold War.  After briefly serving on 
a destroyer, he joined the silent service and conducted patrols in both 
diesel and nuclear powered attack submarines. In 1960, he studied at the 
University of Freiburg in West Germany in the first class of Olmstead 
Scholars. After Germany, he quickly returned to sea and went on to command 
the ballistic missile submarine USS SAM RAYBURN (SSBN-635), providing America 
a quiet, steady shield of protection from nuclear attack. After command, he 
worked with Secretary of the Navy John Warner to broker the U.S.-Soviet 
Incidents at Sea Agreement to further reduce the chance of competition rising 
to conflict at sea.  He went on to command Submarine Group FIVE, 7th Fleet, 
and the Atlantic Fleet during the height of the Cold War. Through his 
constant vigilance and calm leadership, America maintained a command of the 
seas during a period of intense competition with a nuclear armed Soviet Navy. 
 
3.  A man of deep commitment, Admiral Trost continued to serve his country 
and our Navy after his time in uniform drew to a close. During the early 
1990s, he helped his wife, Pauline, bring about her vision to assist families 
of injured and ill service members.  After speaking with Zachary and 
Elizabeth Fisher, the Fisher House Foundation was launched, which has 
provided 400,000 military families a home away from home near medical centers 
over the last 30 years. He went on to serve as the Chairman of the Olmsted 
Foundation and the U.S. Naval Academy Alumni Association, ensuring our future 
Sailors are well educated and trained for the future fight. 
 
4.  Admiral Trost enjoyed 60 wonderful years of marriage to his lovely, late 
wife Pauline.  He is survived by his four children - Carl, Laura Lee and her 
husband John, Steve and his wife Gail, and Kathleen - and his six 
grandchildren - Scott, Megan, Justin, Will, Haley, and Alexa.  He was a true 
patriot, man of honor, and committed public servant.  He will be sorely 
missed by our entire Navy family. 
 
5.  Released by Admiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

