CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 171702Z SEP 24 MID120001393419U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 191/24
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO/N7/NOV//

SUBJ/US NAVAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE FISCAL YEAR(FY) 2025 PROGRAM UPDATE//

REF/A/MSG/SECNAV/171700ZJAN20//

AMPN/REF A IS ALNAV 009/20, SECNAV VECTOR 7.//

RMKS/1.  This message provides an update to USNCC degree and certificate 
programs available to students for FY25.  USNCC was established by Congress 
in the FY 2022 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) as the community 
college of the naval services. USNCC offers programs that support the Naval 
Education Strategy 2030 and contribute to combat readiness.

2.  Active-duty enlisted service members of the United States Navy, United 
States Marine Corps as well as active duty and reserve enlisted service 
members of the United States Coast Guard may apply to programs through the 
USNCC website at https://www.usncc.edu/s/.
There is no tuition, mandatory course fees, or course material costs incurred 
by parent commands or participating students.  USNCC accepts applications all 
year so please apply now. Classes are taught 100% online and asynchronously 
or offered in a competency-based equivalency mode.

3.  Program Updates.
    a.  Degree program confers an associate degree with embedded 
certificates, to include the USNCC Naval Studies Certificate.
    b.  The USNCC Naval Studies Certificate is comprised of five USNCC-
delivered naval science courses and will be incorporated into all USNCC 
degree programs:
        (1) NAV 101 Naval Ethics & Leadership
        (2) NAV 102 Modern Naval History
        (3) NAV 103 Naval Force Design
        (4) NAV 104 Civilian / Military Relations, Organization, and
            American Government
        (5) NAV 105 Introduction to the Geopolitical Environment
    c.  Regionally accredited degree programs offered include:
        (1) Associate of Arts, Military Studies, Arizona State
            University
        (2) Associate of Arts, Organizational Leadership, Arizona
            State University
        (3) Associate of Science, Logistics (Maritime), Arizona
            State University
        (4) Associate of Applied Science, General Engineering
            Technology, Alexandria Technical & Community College
        (5) Associate of Science, General Engineering, Alexandria
            Technical & Community College
        (6) Associate of Science, Naval Nuclear Engineering
            Technology, Alexandria Technical & Community College
        (7) Associate of Science, Aviation Maintenance, Embry-Riddle
            Aeronautical University
        (8) Associate of Science, Engineering Fundamentals,
            Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
        (9) Associate of Science, Uncrewed and Autonomous Systems,
            Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
        (10) Associate of Applied Science, Cybersecurity, Northern
             Virginia Community College
        (11) Associate of Applied Science, Technical Studies
             (Logistics), Tidewater Community College
        (12) Associate of Arts, General Studies w/ Computer Studies
             Specialization, University of Maryland Global Campus
        (13) Associate of Science, Cybersecurity and Information
             Assurance, Western Governors University
        (14) Associate of Science, Data Analytics, Western Governors
             University
        (15) Associate of Science, Health Science, Western Governors
             University
    d.  All degrees include a professionally relevant certificate that helps 
set you apart as an enlisted leader.
    e.  Standalone certificates are available for each of the above-mentioned 
degree programs. Programs offered include:
        (1) Naval Studies Certificate, United States Naval Community
            College
        (2) General Engineering Requisites Certificate, Alexandria
            Technical and Community College
        (3) General Engineering Sciences Certificate, Alexandria
            Technical and Community College
        (4) General Engineering Technology Certificate, Alexandria
            Technical and Community College
        (5) Naval Nuclear Engineering Diploma, Alexandria Technical
            and Community College
        (6) Logistics (Maritime) Certificate, Arizona State
            University
        (7) Military Studies Certificate, Arizona State University
        (8) Organizational Leadership Certificate, Arizona State
            University
        (9) Logistics Career Studies Certificate, Tidewater
            Community College
        (10) Aviation Maintenance Part 65 Certificate, Embry-Riddle
             Aeronautical University
        (11) Engineering Fundamentals Certificate, Embry-Riddle
             Aeronautical University
        (12) Uncrewed and Autonomous Systems Certificate,
             Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
        (13) IT Technical Support Certificate, Northern Virginia
             Community College
        (14) Network Administration Certificate, Northern Virginia
             Community college
        (15) Computer Networking Certificate, University of Maryland
             Global Campus
        (16) Data Analytics Foundations Certificate, Western
             Governors University
        (17) Health Science Undergraduate Certificate, Western
             Governors University
        (18) Network and Cyber Defense Foundations Certificate,
             Western Governors University
    f.  For additional information regarding program requirements and course 
details, please visit the USNCC website at https://www.usncc.edu/s/.

4.  Eligibility Criteria:
    a.  USNCC will accept applications from enlisted service members subject 
to the following eligibility preferences:
        (1) Applicants must be an enlisted service member.
        (2) Members in the pay grades of E-1 to E-9, in any rating or MOS, 
may apply; prioritization of acceptance is dependent on the degree program.
        (3) All applicants must be on active duty and available to take 
online college courses. Active Duty for Operational Support (ADOS), Navy 
Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) and Marine Corps Active 
Reserve (AR) are also eligible.
        (4) Applicants must not be pending any legal or disciplinary action.
        (5) Applicants must have at least 6 months left on contract
(EAOS/EAS) prior to the start of each course.
        (6) For programs that have more than one degree path, applicants must 
only select/apply for one program.
    b. Qualified individuals will need a designated command representative 
(at the E6 or senior level) endorsement.

5.  Application Process:  More information is available, and applications 
must be submitted at the USNCC website at https://www.usncc.edu/s/.

6.  Selection Notifications:  The USNCC will make enrollment selections and 
accepted applicants will be advised of their selection status via email.

7.  Point of contact: Mr. Alphonso Garrett, USNCC Director of Enrollment, 
email at admissions@usncc.edu.

8.  Request widest dissemination of the above information. Regional and 
installation education specialists are requested to pass this information to 
all interested personnel at home stations.

9.  To arrange command visits or briefs, contact MCC Stacy Atkinsricks, USNCC 
Public Affairs Officer, at publicaffairs@usncc.edu, or visit the USNCC 
website for more information.

10.  This message will remain in effect until 30 September 2025 or until 
superseded.

11.  Released by VADM D.W. Dwyer, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans, Strategy, and Warfighting Development (N3/N5/N7).

BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

