UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 261758Z AUG 21 MID200001077793U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 188/21 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTION DC/N1/AUG// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2022 GENERAL MILITARY TRAINING REQUIREMENTS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OSD/DODI 1322.31/20FEB2020// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/161940ZDEC20// 
 
NARR/REF A IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1322.31, COMMON MILITARY TRAINING. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 329/20, CULTURE OF EXCELLENCE SIMPLIFY AND ALIGN.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces general military training (GMT) requirements 
for fiscal year (FY) 2022.  In line with reference (a), the Navy has 
minimized the number of mandatory GMT topics to empower commanders to decide 
what training their personnel should receive and how often they should 
receive it.  Commanding officers (CO) should review the command discretion 
GMT list to determine the frequency and method of additional training 
appropriate for their command. 
 
2.  FY-22 Mandatory GMT Requirements 
    a.  Mandatory GMT must be completed by all military personnel. 
    b.  The following mandatory GMT is required to be completed in FY-22: 
        (1) Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Awareness 
        (2) Cyber Awareness Challenge 
        (3) Counterintelligence Awareness and Reporting 
        (4) Records Management 
        (5) Suicide Prevention 
        (6) Anti-Terrorism Level 1 
        (7) Privacy Act 
    c.  Commands may elect to complete Cyber Awareness Challenge training 
using instructor-led and/or computer-based methods. 
    d.  The recommended method of delivery for SAPR and Suicide Prevention 
annual training is via face-to-face, small group facilitated 
discussions.  While this remains the most effective lesson delivery method, 
this NAVADMIN authorizes COs to adapt or modify FY-22 SAPR and Suicide 
Prevention GMT delivery methods consistent with coronavirus mitigation 
procedures and operational commitments to meet these training 
requirements.  If in-person, face-to-face delivery is not feasible, the 
preferred alternative is facilitated small group training via teleconference, 
Defense Collaboration Services, or DoD365 Microsoft Teams.  SAPR and Suicide 
Prevention training is not authorized for delivery via non-Department of 
Defense (DOD) approved collaborative technology (e.g. Facebook, Zoom, 
etc.).  Facilitated small group training using approved video conferencing 
technology is considered *face-to-face*. Senior commanders have the authority 
to issue guidance that is more restrictive to their subordinate commands. 
 
3.  FY-22 Command Discretion GMT 
    a.  Command discretion GMT is not required at any specified periodicity, 
but may have situational requirements (i.e. initial entry, pre-deployment, 
career milestones, etc.).  COs should train their personnel at a time and 
place that best meets their command and mission needs. 
    b.  The list of discretionary training topics has been updated to reflect 
the effort of the Culture of Excellence Oversight Committee, to simplify and 
align policies and programs that are duplicative or ineffective.  For a 
comprehensive list of consolidated or cancelled training products, refer to 
reference (b). 
    c.  COs may assign the following topics at their discretion: 
        (1) Center for Development of Security Excellence Insider Threat 
Course 
        (2) Combating Trafficking in Persons 
        (3) Domestic Violence Prevention and Reporting 
        (4) Energy Policy 
        (5) Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Resolution Options 
        (6) Operational Risk Management 
        (7) Operations Security 
        (8) Personal Financial Management 
        (9) Sexual Health and Responsibility 
        (10) Traumatic Brain Injury 
        (11) Tactical Combat Casualty Care  All Service Members/ 
Tier 1 
    d.  Combating Trafficking in Persons training is required within one year 
of initial entry of service. 
    e.  Personal Financial Management training does not have a required 
annual periodicity, but is instead mandatory at personal and professional 
touchpoints across the military lifecycle in accordance with reference (a). 
    f.  Financial Readiness touchpoint courses are available via Navy  
e-Learning (search for the title *touchpoint* under the Course Catalog tab) 
and the MyNavy Financial Literacy mobile app.  If preferred, in-person 
training can be provided by a Fleet and Family Support Center Personal 
Financial Manager or a Command Financial Specialist.  In-person training 
information and resources can be found at  
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Support-Services/21st-Century-Sailor/Family-
Readiness/Personal-Financial-Mgmt/. 
 
4.  Additional Information 
    a.  The GMT webpage can be found on the MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/general-skills-training/gmt/. 
    b.  Detailed requirements for each topic are listed on the GMT webpage 
and should be reviewed thoroughly by commands prior to assigning 
training.  The webpage provides topic-specific information such as: 
        (1) Instructor and documentation requirements 
        (2) Training in combined military-civilian sessions 
        (3) Links to instructor guides and other training products 
    c.  Current SAPR and Suicide Prevention training materials are not 
designed for individual/self-study.  Training using methods other than 
facilitated small group sessions will be challenging. Feedback, lessons 
learned and recommendations for more effective training delivery are 
encouraged.  Please provide your recommendations or refer any questions to 
the following points of contact: 
         (1) SAPR training:  Ms. Andrea Verdino, OPNAV N17, 
andrea.j.verdino(at)navy.mil. 
         (2) Suicide Prevention training:  Ms. Ruth Cassidy, OPNAV 
N17, ruth.cassidy(at)navy.mil. 
         (3) Training policy:  LCDR Jonathan Greenberg, OPNAV 
N13M7T, jonathan.d.greenberg(at)navy.mil. 
    d.  All SAPR training materials are for official use only.  SAPR training 
materials shall not be loaded onto publically accessible websites (e.g. 
YouTube, Facebook, etc.).  Additionally, the following disclaimer should be 
added at the beginning of each SAPR training session that is not conducted in 
person:  We understand that participating in SAPR training can be 
difficult.  If you need advocacy support at any time, please contact the  
on-call Sexual Assault Response Coordinator/Victim Advocate at [please insert 
contact information for the local Sexual Assault Response Center or Victims 
Advocate] or the DOD Safe helpline at https://www.safehelpline.org/look-
inside-Safe-Helpline or 877-995-5247. 
 
5.  GMT questions or feedback should be sent via e-mail to 
gmt.distribution(at)navy.mil. 
 
6.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2022, whichever occurs first. 
 
7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
