UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 092219Z FEB 21 MID200000590050U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 032/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/FEB//

SUBJ/CNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET ON EXTREMIST BEHAVIOR//

RMKS/1.  Shipmates, I am certain the vast majority of men and women in the 
United States Navy serve with honor, character, and integrity.  But we cannot 
be under any illusions that extremist behaviors do not exist in our Navy.

2.  Just in the past few weeks, there have been two separate incidents where 
symbols of hate and violence were anonymously left in living areas aboard 
ships in our Fleet.  The chain of command took both of those incidents 
seriously and immediately launched investigations, which are ongoing.

3.  But there is more we must do, together, because these symbols are 
contrary to our Navy culture, core values, and warfighting effectiveness.

4.  As directed by the Secretary of Defense and across the Fleet, each 
command will conduct a stand down by April 6, 2021 to address extremism 
within our ranks.  We must better understand the scope of the problem, get 
after this issue, and eliminate conduct that is driven by extremist beliefs.  
No doubt, this is a leadership issue.  We will own this.

5.  As a Navy uniform and civilian, active and reserve - we cannot tolerate 
extremist behavior of any kind, and must engage in open and honest 
conversations with each other and take action.  Leaders at all levels must 
lead by example.  You must set the tone.  You must model correct behavior 
24/7/365 in person and online.

6.  We also have a responsibility to educate, and inspire those in the Navy, 
those coming into the Fleet, and those leaving our service that extremist 
behavior is unacceptable.  Hate and extremist ideology are wedges that divide 
us.  These actions stoke resentment and tear others down.  Thats the opposite 
of how we will treat each other as shipmates.  We build each other up, we 
encourage each other, and we celebrate our shipmates success.

7.  If we dont eliminate extremist behaviors from our Navy, then racism, 
injustice, indignity, and disrespect will grow and continue to keep us from 
reaching our potential - an inclusive, respectful, professional fighting 
force that answers the Nations call.  If we must first question the 
intentions of our shipmate standing the watch with us, now, and especially, 
when taking fire, we will fail when the Nation needs us must in combat.

8.  Some Sailors may think their voices do not matter right now, or feel 
frustrated seeking to be seen and be heard.  But let me be clear, each of 
your voices matter.  This stand-down is another in our efforts to listen, to 
learn, and to improve.

9.  Now is the time for us to come together and be guided by a strong moral 
compass.  We must eliminate extremist behavior and its corrosive effects on 
our fighting force.  And we must remember that we swear an oath to support 
and defend the Constitution above all else.

10.  Today, and every day, our Navy must be a shining example of an 
organization centered on respect, inclusive of all.

11.  Simply put, we must demand of each other that we treat everyone with 
dignity and respect.  That is how we will become a stronger Navy.

12.  CNO Gilday sends.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


