CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 162101Z FEB 23 MID200080744573U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 044/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB// 
 
SUBJ/FY-24 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17// 
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/02MAY19// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.   
REF C IS PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 150A, SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 NUCLEAR OPTION 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAM.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) Commissioning 
Program.  Due to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, applicants 
stationed outside the United States at any time between 1 February 2022 and 
30 June 2023 or those who were deployed at any time between 1 February 2022 
and 30 June 2023 may apply without a valid Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) or 
American College Test (ACT), if they meet the requirements detailed in 
paragraph 7h of this NAVADMIN.  The SAT or ACT application requirement is 
also waived for STA-21 Nuclear option (STA-21(N)) applicants.  Supplemental 
information for applicant submission is provided in paragraphs 7g and 7h of 
this NAVADMIN. 
 
2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all pay grades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a). 
 
3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-24 STA-21 Program is  
1 July 2023.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the 
deadline date.  It is recommended applications be submitted prior to the 
deadline as early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for 
submission of missing or illegible documents.  The additional documentation 
submitted must be postmarked on or before 24 July 2023.  No additional 
documents may be submitted after this date.  The selection board is scheduled 
to convene in August 2023 and the selectees will be announced via NAVADMIN 
message. 
 
4.  The core program and the following target options are open for 
application for the FY-24 Selection Board:  Surface Warfare Officer (SWO), 
SWO Engineering Duty Option SWO (ED), Nuclear (Surface and Sub), Special 
Warfare, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, Aviator, Civil 
Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps, and Information Professional. 
 
5.  The following target options have zero select opportunities for FY-24:   
Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical Corps, Supply 
Corps, SWO Information Professional (IP), Oceanography Officer (OCEANO), and 
SWO (OCEANO). 
 
6.  The Nuclear (Surface and Submarine) target option is now open to Sailors 
who are serving in the Fleet and hold an active nuclear Navy enlisted 
classification (NEC) (N1XO, N1XS, N2XO, N2XS) and to those Sailors who are in 
the nuclear training pipeline with the N91T NEC. 
Applicants holding a nuclear NEC must receive a conditional release from the 
Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D), in line with reference (b), 
if applying for an option outside the nuclear community.  All applicants for 
STA-21(N) must be able to begin their first day of class in the first 
semester of their coursework prior to reaching 8 years of service.  Reference 
(c) provides specific information and all other requirements to apply for the 
STA-21(N) program.  Additional information applicable to this year's STA-21 
application is as follows: 
    a.  If a physical fitness assessment (PFA) was not performed 
within the last year, commanding officers (CO) will provide an 
affirmative statement in their endorsement certifying the applicant 
is within height and weight requirements as required by paragraph 7 
of this NAVADMIN. 
    b.  Standardized test scores are required in the application submission 
in line with paragraph 7h of this NAVADMIN.  Candidates are advised to verify 
school admission requirements, as the STA-21(N) SAT or ACT waiver does not 
supersede university admission requirements. 
    c.  The Sailor and Marine American Council on Education Registry 
Transcript, in line with reference (a), enclosure (1), chapter 8, paragraph 
6b(9), is not required to be submitted for this application.  A future 
revision of reference (a) will remove this requirement. 
    d.  The applicant's photograph, in line with reference (a), is no longer 
required for this application.  A future revision of reference (a) will 
remove this requirement. 
 
7.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the FY-23 STA-21 
selection process and board.  This information is provided to preclude common 
errors: 
    a.  Of the 265 applications received for FY-23, only 243 were board 
eligible.  A total of 79 were selected to participate in the FY-23 STA-21 
Program. 
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying SAT or 
ACT scores, missing CO endorsement or recommendations, recent non-judicial 
punishment, missing PFA cycles, missing or illegible submission of documents, 
and not meeting program age or PFA requirements. 
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.   
Officer interview boards will consist of three officers.  The applicant's CO 
may not be a board member and should not submit an interview appraisal 
sheet.  The CO's personal interview should be conducted only after the 
application is complete and the officer interview board has submitted their 
appraisals.  The full picture of an applicant's academic and officer 
potential can only be determined by reviewing the SAT or ACT scores (if 
required), high school or college transcripts, and a completed application 
package. 
    d.  The CO's endorsement is extremely important, especially the ranking 
of the individual among their peers.  The endorsement should contain 
specifics about the individual's academic potential, commitment, leadership, 
service above self, and potential as a naval officer.  CO comments should 
specify the primary option to which the individual is applying and address 
how the individual meets the qualifications for that option.  For junior 
Sailors with only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in 
their endorsement. 
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board will be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  It is recommended officers of the applicant's 
designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in the interview 
and nomination review board to assess the applicant for their community.   
Officer appraisals provide important insight into the applicant.  The 
appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
applicant's leadership and academic potential.  Appraisal forms should be 
typed in 10 or 12-point font. 
    f.  The applicant's personal statement should address why the Sailor 
wants to become an officer, how the Sailor's selection would improve the 
Navy, and why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must 
also address any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their 
character.  Junior Sailors should provide information on high school 
experiences as high school transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on 
involvement in sports, clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, 
applicants should address any anomalies in the package (e.g., poor high 
school grades, college grades, service school grades, or poor evaluation 
performance).  The explanation should include details of the situation, how 
the applicant has overcome these issues, and why the applicant will be 
successful in the future. 
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant. 
Applicants must review their packages in their entirety before submitting 
them.  Check for misspelled words and improper grammar. 
Ensure all high school and college transcripts are enclosed. 
Applicants must submit results from the last PFA completed including their 
overall score.  Applicants who have not taken the PFA within the past year 
and meet the exception criteria must have a CO's endorsement including a 
statement verifying the applicant is currently within height and weight 
standards. 
    h.  Qualifying SAT or ACT scores are required for all non- nuclear 
officer candidates except as noted in paragraph 1 of this NAVADMIN.   
Applications can still be submitted pending receipt of SAT or ACT scores or 
with a command statement indicating non-availability for overseas locations 
and deployed units.  SAT or ACT scores can be from exams taken between 1 July 
2018 and 1 July 2023. Applicants without a SAT or ACT score and who meet the 
exception criteria should ensure their high school cumulative grade point 
average (minimum 2.5 GPA) is within the last 5 years or have a minimum 2.5 
cumulative college GPA on a 4.0 scale with 12 or more semester hours. 
    i.  It is recommended the command retain a copy of the entire application 
package.  The command portion of the application (such as command endorsement 
and interview appraisal sheets) should not be given to the applicant. 
 
8.  The preferred method of delivery for applications is through mail.  If 
mail delivery is not possible, contact the Naval Service Training Command 
STA-21 Program Office (N92 STA-21) at grlk_sta21(at)navy.mil for alternative 
delivery methods.  Mail completed applications to: 
 
Naval Service Training Command 
ATTN:  N92 STA-21 
320A Dewey Ave Building 3, Room 106 
Great Lakes, IL 60088-2845 
 
9.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements, and selection procedures, refer to reference (a), contact your 
command career counselor, or visit the STA-21 website at:  
https://www.netc.navy.mil/Commands/Naval-Service-Training-Command/STA-
21/  for the most up-to-date information. 
 
10.  The point of contact for STA-21 is Naval Service Training Command,  
N92 STA-21, and can be reached at (847) 688-5454 ext 243 DSN 792 or via  
e-mail at grlk_sta21(at)navy.mil.  The point of contact for the STA-21(N) 
Program Office is the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager, OPNAV N133D, and 
can be reached at (703) 604- 5491/DSN 664 or via e-mail at 
bullnuke(at)navy.mil. 
 
11.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

