ROUTINE 
R 271500Z JUL 22 MID200080059356U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 170/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL// 
 
SUBJ/FY23-24 SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH INDUSTRY ANNOUNCEMENT 
 
REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/15MAY19// 
AMPN/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1320.1A, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH 
INDUSTRY PROGRAM. 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Fiscal Year (FY) 2023-2024 Secretary of 
the Navy Tours with Industry (SNTWI) program, as directed in reference 
(a).  This program is a unique and non- traditional opportunity for 
exceptional Active Component (AC) and Training and Administration of the 
Reserve (TAR) Sailors (E-6 to O-6) to work with partnering corporations.   
SNTWI fellows are included and immersed in industry to learn and observe 
corporate processes and best practices.  Knowledge gained as a SNTWI fellow 
will assist in bringing innovative ideas and proven practices back to the 
Navy. Past fellows were assigned to VMware, Qualcomm, Apple, Boeing, Tesla, 
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, GE Digital, Amazon, FedEx, Northrup Grumman, 
Space X, LinkedIn and United Services Automobile Association. 
 
2.  Application packages must be routed through the applicants detailer and 
the respective community distribution division will select candidates.   
Eligibility will be based solely on individual community needs, demands, and 
desired learning objectives.  The SNTWI application package will consist of 
Secretary of the Navy Tours with Industry Program Application (NAVPERS 
1330/4), military biography with picture, resume, learning objectives and 
identified utilization tour approved by First Community Flag Officer.   
An example of an SNTWI package can be found at 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Talent-Management/SNTWI/. 
 
3.  Eligibility.  Applicants must be high performing and within physical 
standards of readiness.  Applicants must be within 3 months of their 
projected rotation date by July 2023 to be eligible for participation.   
*Off-cycle* reporting to a company will be considered based on community 
needs or operational requirements. Participation in the program should not 
negatively impact the career progression of the applicant.  Applicants who 
are within 11 months of a career milestone or not positively endorsed by 
their community will not be considered for this program. 
 
4.  Service Obligation.  Tours are normally 10-12 months in length, depending 
on community and corporate requirements.  Selectees incur a service 
obligation of three times the number of months participating in the SNTWI 
program (i.e. 30-36 months). 
 
5.  In addition to the eligibility requirements, additional 
restrictions apply: 
    a.  Selected Reservists are not eligible for this program. 
    b.  Applicants who are within 3 years of statutory retirement and/or have 
requested retirement or separation are not eligible for this program. 
 
6.  All communities must submit the names of their selectees to the Director 
of SNTWI no later than 31 December 2022.  Names of selectees submitted after 
31 December 2022 will be considered on a case-by-case basis (i.e. awaiting 
promotion selection results). Communities are encouraged to submit alternate 
names for unfilled quotas.  Selectees will be matched with a company by 30 
April 2023. Communities are responsible for notifying selectees of acceptance 
status. 
 
7.  Notes: 
    a.  All Designators.  Contact your detailer for more information.  Quotas 
may not be filled due to manning levels. Executing orders, slating to a 
billet, or serving in a hard fill billet or one with significant training 
required could disqualify a candidate for consideration and 
eligibility.  Applicants are required to contact their detailer to discuss 
milestones and performance requirements to be considered for eligibility. 
    b.  E6-E9.  Contact your detailer for more information.  Quotas may not 
be filled due to manning levels.  Executing orders, slating to a billet, 
serving in a hard fill billet or one with significant training required could 
disqualify a candidate for consideration and eligibility. 
 
8.  Points of contact: 
    a.  For community-specific eligibility and application questions, contact 
your detailer. 
    b.  For program questions not pertaining to application and eligibility, 
contact sntwi_support.fct(at)navy.mil. 
 
9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled. 
 
10.  Released by Rear Admiral J. P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
