ROUTINE 
R 131525Z JUL 22 MID600052102644U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 152/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL// 
 
SUBJ/ANNUAL RECERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/5OCT17// 
REF/B/DOC/DOD/11JAN19// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1160.6C, SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT PAY PROGRAM.   
REF B IS DOD INSTRUCTION 1340.26 CHANGE 1, ASSIGNMENT AND SPECIAL DUTY 
ASSIGNMENT PAY.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual special duty 
assignment pay (SDAP) recertification process for fiscal year (FY) 
2022.  In line with references (a) and (b), commanding officers (CO) 
are required to annually review and certify the entitlement to SDAP 
for each Sailor.  This recertification is vital in verifying that 
every Sailor assigned to an eligible billet remains qualified to 
fill the eligible billet and is receiving the correct SDAP level. 
 
2.  Certification will commence upon the release of this NAVADMIN 
and continue through 31 August 2022.  Enlisted Incentive Program 
Department (BUPERS-328) will stop SDAP for all SDAP recipients at 
each command who fails to complete the recertification process on 
time.  Commands should prioritize timely completion of this process 
to preclude any potential pay disruptions for eligible Sailors. 
SDAP recertification reports received at BUPERS-328 will not be 
forwarded to the servicing transaction support center (TSC).  Any 
action required to start, stop or change the level of SDAP of a 
Sailor must be submitted to TSC via the command pay and personnel 
administrator for action. 
 
3.  To verify if a Sailor is eligible and receiving the correct 
level of SDAP, a complete list of authorized skills and pay amounts 
can be found by visiting the MyNavy HR website at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Enlisted-Career-Admin/SRB-SDAP-Enl-Bonus/, then scroll to 
*SDAP Levels with Admin Updates.* 
 
4.  The SDAP recertification process has changed from FY-21.  An 
initial request for the SDAP recertification report from BUPERS-328 
is no longer necessary.  Use the following procedures as a guide: 
    a.  Obtain and print a summary of the authorized SDAP billets 
for the command using the My Navy Assignments database.  This is the 
filtered billet based distribution (BBD) report for the command that 
only lists the Sailors who are currently receiving SDAP. 
        (1) This report may not be exhaustive.  Certifying commands 
must verify their entire complement of Sailors in order to validate 
SDAP payments to Sailors who may not be electronically gained to the 
command or those Sailors who are gained but are erroneously being 
paid SDAP. 
        (2) Commands without an activity manning manager may request 
access to command career management system-interactive detailing 
using the procedure outlined in the following MyNavy HR web address: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Portals/55/Career/Detailing/MyNavyAssignment/My
Navy_Assignment_Access.pdf.  Certifying commands must have 
access to all subordinate unit identification codes (UIC). 
        (3) Commands may contact BUPERS-328 via 
mill_sdap_recert.fct(at)navy.mil or (901)874-3260/DSN 882 for 
additional assistance in obtaining their SDAP BBD report. 
    b.  Validate the entire command using the SDAP BBD report from 
the MyNavy Assignments database as follows: 
        (1) Next to each Sailor listed on the report, simply 
annotate the SDAP level and the associated Navy enlisted 
classification for which SDAP is authorized in line with the most 
current SDAP eligibility chart.  Any erroneous SDAP payments must be 
corrected through the TSC upon discovery. 
        (2) In the event of an unposted activity loss or strength 
loss that resulted in a Sailor who has already transferred but is 
still listed in the BBD report, simply line out or delete the line 
item. 
        (3) Sailors who are not listed in the report due to a 
delayed or unposted activity gain should be added to the list and 
validated appropriately. 
        (4) Once each Sailor at the command is validated, a signed 
letter from the CO or acting (not by direction) will be addressed 
and forwarded to Director, Military Community Management (BUPERS-3) 
with the SDAP BBD report as an enclosure.  The contents of the 
validation letter will include a statement from the CO certifying 
that a complete review of all authorized SDAP billets at the command 
was conducted and all discrepancies are rectified or are in the 
process of being resolved.  The letter will also contain the e-mail 
address and phone number of a suitable point of contact at the 
command and may also contain a list of all pending discrepancy 
resolutions. 
        (5) Send the command SDAP recertification letter and 
enclosed SDAP report via encrypted e-mail to BUPERS-3 at: 
mill_sdap_recert.fct(at)navy.mil.  The e-mail subject line must 
contain the UIC of the certifying command. 
        (6) If a command has trouble sending the encrypted e-mail, 
ensure the encryption e-mail certificate is posted to the global 
address list.  If there are still encryption issues, contact BUPERS- 
328 for additional options. 
        (7) E-mail is the preferred method, but if needed to send 
the report via regular mail, please send to: 
            Bureau of Naval Personnel 
            Enlisted Incentive Program Department (BUPERS 328) 
            5720 Integrity Drive 
            Millington TN 38055-0130 
 
5.  Should a service record or payment update become necessary, each 
command is responsible for completing this action via their 
servicing TSC.  All corrective transactions older than 240 days will 
be processed by BUPERS-328 via an emailed request submitted to 
mill_incen_pays.fct(at)navy.mil. 
 
6.  Commands can check the status of their SDAP recertification at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Enlisted-Career-Admin/SRB-SDAP-Enl-Bonus/, then scroll to 
the SDAP section and click on *SDAP Delinquent List.*  Immediate 
superior in commands (ISIC) are strongly encouraged to use this site 
to ensure all subordinate commands have completed the 
recertification.  Please allow 5 to 10 days after submission for the 
webpage to be updated. 
 
7.  Prior to stopping or suspending any SDAP payments, a list of all 
delinquent commands will be forwarded to Director, Military 
Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV N13), and the N1 staffs at U.S. 
Fleet Forces and U.S. Pacific Fleet via the Military Pay and 
Compensation Branch (OPNAV N130). 
 
8.  BUPERS-328 is the sole authority to resume SDAP payments for 
commands whose SDAP payments were stopped as a result of failing to 
complete the annual recertification on time.  SDAP can be restored 
for delinquent commands upon completion of the aforementioned 
recertification process with the added requirement of an endorsement 
signed by the ISIC or first flag officer or senior executive service 
official in the chain of command, whichever is first.  Once SDAP 
disbursements are restored, all eligible Sailors at the command will 
be retroactively compensated. 
 
9.  It is recognized that the recertification process is burdensome 
for Sailors and commands.  OPNAV N130 is working with Navy pay and 
personnel programmers to embed recertification functions within the 
next generation of pay systems to improve process efficiency.  Until 
these systems are fully deployed, the current process must be 
adhered to according to Department of Defense guidance. 
 
10.  Point of contact.  BUPERS-328, 
mill_sdap_recert.fct(at)navy.mil, (901) 874-3260/DSN 882. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect through October 2022 or 
unless superseded by a sooner message. 
 
12.  Released by Rear Admiral J. P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
