UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 122237Z JUN 20 MID510001261460U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 169/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION POST STOP MOVEMENT PRIORITY PLAN//

REF/A/MSG/OPNAV/122138ZJUN20//
REF/B/DOC/OSD/22MAY20//
REF/C/MSG/OPNAV/042027ZMAY20//
REF/D/DOC/USFFC/USPACFLT/16AUG19//NOTAL//
REF/E/MSG/OPNAV/221516ZDEC17//
REF/F/MEMO/DOA/20MAY20//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 168/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO 
CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK UPDATE 5.  
REF B IS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
(SECDEF) MEMO ON TRANSITION TO CONDITIONS-BASED PHASED APPROACH TO 
CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 PERSONNEL MOVEMENT AND TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS.
REF C IS NAVADMIN 132/20, FORCE MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL MITIGATION MEASURES IN 
RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK.  
REF D IS U.S. FLEET FORCES COMMAND-U.S. PACIFIC FLEET NOTICE 1000, SEA DUTY 
MANNING TARGET LEVELS.  
REF E IS NAVADMIN 307/17, ALIGNMENT OF ENLISTMENT CONTRACTS WITH DUTY STATION 
TOUR LENGTHS.  
REF F IS DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY (DOA) MEMO ON PASSPORT PROCESSING DURING 
COVID-19 PANDEMIC.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN details how Navy Personnel Command (NPC) will work to 
eliminate the temporary backlog of five months of Sailors due to transfer as 
locations and installations achieve the conditions outlined in reference (b).   
There are 42,000 Sailors with Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders 
delayed due to COVID- 19.  As conditions allow for the easing of stop 
movement orders, household goods (HHG) and transportation logistics will 
initially limit the number of Sailors that can be moved at one time.

2.  Until full HHG and transportation capacities are restored, NPC will 
prioritize transfers that emphasize fleet readiness while striving for 
contact relief in operational sea duty billets.  This will likely involve the 
delay and/or acceleration of Estimated Dates of Departure (EDDs) of Sailors.

3.  Background
    a.  COVID-19 has created a complex challenge to how the Navy balances the 
distribution of Sailors and maintains fleet readiness.
Interruptions to the Navy accessions supply chain and inability to complete 
prioritized turnover moves have contributed to an increase of operational 
gaps at sea.  Solving this problem will require engaged leadership, 
flexibility and patience among Sailors and commands.
    b.  References (a) and (b) and previous guidance have forced Sailors with 
EDDs in March, April, May and June 2020 to delay their transfer.  When 
combined with Sailors due to detach in July 2020, transfer backlog of the 
Navy is almost 42,000 Sailors.
    c.  Reference (a) details that travel restrictions may be lifted or 
relaxed incrementally by location or installation, taking into account local 
health conditions and criteria.  These relaxations will be tracked by the 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness 
(USD(PR)).  In areas remaining under stop movement conditions, the exemption 
and waiver processes described in reference (a) will continue to apply.  PCS 
orders will continue to include Restriction of Movement (ROM) periods for 
Sailors traveling to or from these areas, to include intermediate stops.  
Travel may be restricted even between areas which have satisfied the criteria 
in reference (a) if the travel includes an intermediate stop (I- stop), 
layover or airline connection in an area which remains under stop-movement.
    d.  During the summer, the highest volume move season, U.S.
Transportation Command (USTC) will not immediately be able to support 
Department of Defense (DoD) and Navy demand for PCS moves.
As a result, Navy will follow DoD criteria for lifting restrictions on travel 
and PCS orders.  These criteria will take into account local conditions in 
countries, states and installations based on prevailing COVID risk 
conditions.  This means that relaxation of the global stop-movement will not 
mean unrestricted movement to and from all locations simultaneously.  
Eliminating the PCS backlog could extend beyond the end of calendar year 
2020.
    e.  The ultimate goal is for Navy to preserve its maritime superiority by 
focusing on fleet readiness.  Once we have eliminated the COVID-created 
backlog, NPC will return to a distribution environment where Sailors transfer 
based on their original EDD.

4.  Policy
    a.  NPC will use every option available to maintain fleet readiness.  
These options include prioritization of move timing based on the priority of 
billets, incentivizing sea duty as outlined in reference (c) and adjustment 
of EDDs.
    b.  For the entire group of Sailors affected, even those in categories 
exempted under reference (a), NPC will prioritize all PCS moves based on the 
impacts of fleet readiness rather than solely on a Projected Rotation Date 
(PRD) of the Sailor.  Those Sailors transferring to high priority units will 
move first.  This will entail shortening shore duty tours by up to 6 months.  
Sailors transferring from high priority units will move last.  This will 
entail extending Sailors on sea duty by up to 6 months.  In each case, NPC 
will work with the Service Member, gaining and losing commands to evaluate 
potential hardships and impacts on readiness.
        (1)  High priority units are those specifically designated 
*operational sea duty.*  NPC will continue to work with Commander, U.S. Fleet 
Forces Command (USFF), Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet (CPF) and Type 
Commanders (TYCOM) to prioritize *operational sea duty* billets over other 
sea duty, using reference (d) and current operational requirements as 
guidance.
        (2)  Operational sea duty includes strategic and special operations 
forces, Forward Deployed Naval Forces (FDNF) and Optimized Fleet Response 
Plan (OFRP) units with a published manning date (M-date), normally 12 months 
before the deployment date.
        (3)  Special consideration will be given to Sailors serving in or 
ordered to critical accession pipeline billets on shore duty (Recruit 
Training Command, Officer Training Command, Navy Recruiting Commands, and 
essential production support training sites).  This consideration will ensure 
those commands continue with manning to operate with an acceptable level of 
risk to their critical training missions and preserve the flow of accession 
Sailors to the fleet.
        (4)  The next group of priorities will be Sailors transferring to 
milestone billets, OSD validated key billets, special program billets and 
students heading to civilian or service schools (e.g., Naval War College, 
Naval Postgraduate School, Senior Enlisted Academy).
        (5)  The next group of priorities will be Sailors transferring 
outside the continental U.S. (OCONUS) shore duty, Major or Numbered Fleet 
Staffs, Combatant Commander staffs or Joint Staffs and Office of the 
Secretary of Defense.
        (6)  The next group of priorities will be non-operational sea duty to 
include units that are in the maintenance phase and Pre- Commissioning.
        (7) The final group of priorities will be all other continental U.S. 
(CONUS) shore duty.
    c.  NPC acknowledges that vacancies may exist at lower priority commands 
and will work to minimize those shortfalls.
    d.  Detailers will contact those Sailors with orders to transfer in March 
through September 2020 to determine any economic hardships or transfer 
limitations.  Placement officers will work with USFF, CPF and TYCOMs to 
determine readiness impacts.  The transfer of a Sailor will be determined by 
the priority system listed in subparagraph 4b and may be adjusted up to 6 
months to facilitate contact relief.
    e.  For Sailors with PRDs in October 2020 and beyond, detailers will 
review the postings of all Sailors on higher priority units to determine if a 
relief has been identified.  For those Sailors with a relief identified, the 
detailer may adjust the EDD of the incumbent to match the Estimated Date of 
Arrival (EDA) of the relief to facilitate a contact relief.  When 
appropriate, detailers may consider moving the relief from shore duty early 
to lessen the extension impact on the incumbent.  Those Service Members 
without a relief identified shall have their EDD extended up to 6 months past 
their current PRD.  The EDD may be readjusted when a relief is identified in 
the future to minimize overlap.
        (1)  Using information gathered from Sailors, USFF, CPF and TYCOMs, 
NPC will issue order modifications as required.  Those modifications will 
have a No Earlier Than (NET) or No Later Than (NLT) date on when the Service 
Member can conduct a HHG move.
Sailors are encouraged to use the MyPCS mobile app, available from the Navy 
App Locker (https://www.applocker.navy.mil) to schedule and manage their HHG 
move.
        (2)  Sailors conducting local geographic transfers, no-cost PCS moves 
or Personally Procured Moves (PPM), also commonly referred to as Do-It-
Yourself (DITY) moves, are not exempt and may still be subject to an orders 
modification.  The intent of Sailors and pursuit of these options will reduce 
the overall demand for HHG moves by a contracted moving company, reducing 
pressure on USTC and personal property offices.  PPM/DITY moves in particular 
allow a Sailor to move HHG when best for the Sailor and family, even if fleet 
readiness concerns adjust the timing of the actual detachment of the Sailor 
from the losing command.
    f.  In coordination with USFF and CPF, NPC may need to renegotiate 
already-released orders to maximize readiness of operational sea duty units, 
accession pipelines and increase the number of same geographic location and 
no-cost moves.  For the extent of the COVID recovery, near-term readiness may 
eclipse career progression or duty station preferences.
    g.  In special circumstances, and with Career Management Pillar
(PERS-4) concurrence, some Sailors may be extended 7-12 months as they await 
a contact relief.  All efforts will be made to minimize these extensions.  A 
new Assignment Incentive Pay to compensate those Sailors extended greater 
than 6 months beyond their PRD has been proposed by Navy to the Assistant 
Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (ASN(M&RA)) and 
approval is expected shortly.  Sailors that are in Sea Duty Incentive Pay 
(SDIP) eligible skills and extend for 12 months or more may receive SDIP 
instead.
All Sailors are encouraged to consider the incentives for voluntary 
extensions outlined in reference (c).
    h.  To ensure NPC and gaining commands have the most accurate information 
of projected Sailor arrivals, all enlisted orders received shall be 
acknowledged by the losing command to their Immediate Superior in Command 
(ISIC) with a statement of the intent of their affected Sailor to execute the 
orders, in line with reference (e).  Commands with enlisted personnel who do 
not intend to execute a received set of orders (i.e., separate at PRD) shall 
notify PERS-4013 as soon as possible.  Commands shall ensure all gains and 
losses are accounted for in Navy Standard Integrated Personnel System (NSIPS) 
in a timely manner.
    i.  Sailors with retirement or fleet reserve orders and enlisted 
personnel with End of Active Obligated Service (EAOS) dates before their PRDs 
who do not intend to re-enlist will be exempt from this direction.
    j.  Conditions outlined in reference (a) will be achieved in stages 
geographically.  Local restrictions will persist after the initial 
relaxations.  NPC will take local Health Protection Conditions (HPCONs) and 
international, state and local government policies into account when 
determining PCS transfer timelines.  NPC may delay moves, even into an area 
cleared for PCS movement, in the interest of fleet readiness.
    k.  Passport and Visa Issuance.  As outlined in reference (f), Service 
Members, DoD civilians and dependents on PCS orders to OCONUS locations 
requiring a no-fee passport, pursuant to the foreign clearance guide, will 
submit passport applications to their local passport acceptance facility no 
earlier than 60 days and no later than 45 days from OCONUS departure date.  
If a visa is also required, the passport application will be submitted no 
earlier than 80 days and no later than 65 days before departure date.
        (1) Failure to adhere to these timeframes increases the chance that 
command-sponsored dependents will not receive their passport and/or visa in 
time to travel concurrently with their DoD sponsors.
        (2) Service Members, DoD civilians and command-sponsored dependents 
on PCS orders to OCONUS locations with departure dates before 30 June 2020, 
and who are traveling under one of the stop movement order exemptions 
approved by reference (a) or have been granted an exception to policy to the 
stop movement order, should immediately submit their passport applications if 
they have not already done so.
    l.  Delayed Dependent Travel (DDT).  Sailors in receipt of PCS orders 
with a transfer date before 1 September 2020 may request DDT to the new 
permanent duty station of up to 180 days due to coronavirus.  Sailors with a 
transfer date before the stop movement termination date will receive up to 
180 days delay from the termination date.  Personnel with a transfer date 
after the termination date will receive up to 180 days from the transfer 
date.
        (1) Service Members with dependents in elementary or secondary school 
(K-12) may request DDT until the end of the school year or 30 June 2021, 
whichever occurs first.  Service Members are only entitled to one housing 
allowance and Family Separation Allowance will not be authorized.
        (2) Navy Personnel Command (PERS-451) will be the approval authority 
for DDT from locations within CONUS.  Due to possible Status of Forces 
Agreement (SOFA) concerns, Military Pay and Compensation Branch (OPNAV N130) 
will be the approval authority for DDT from locations OCONUS.  For personnel 
who were previously approved for DDT, PERS-451 and OPNAV N130 are authorized 
to approve extensions related to COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis.

5.  Key messages
    a.  Sailors.  The emphasis on operational readiness and unit 
prioritization reflects our identity as a Sea Service.  NPC must preserve the 
readiness of the Fleet by ensuring that PCS moves are executed to maintain 
manning at key commands.  This will result in changes to tour lengths as we 
move Sailors to sea duty early and hold Sailors on sea duty beyond their EDD.  
I encourage all Sailors to review the incentives outlined in reference (c) 
and consider extending at sea or volunteering for sea duty.  I know that this 
will induce additional hardship for some Sailors and families and I thank you 
and them for your service and sacrifice.  Please trust that every Sailor on 
the MyNavy HR team will work hard to minimize this impact.
    b.  Commands.  Commanders, commanding officers, executive officers and 
senior enlisted leaders must ensure their Sailors understand the intent of 
this message.  Further, command leaders should engage their Sailors, discuss 
the COVID-19 affect on the economy and encourage your best Sailors to stay 
Navy, taking advantage of incentives in reference (c).  Your engagement and 
recruitment of your Sailors to stay Navy makes a difference.

6.  Points of Contact.  Questions regarding the changing of the EDD of a 
Sailor should be referred to the appropriate detailer.
Detailer contact information is available through MyNavyPortal
(https://my.navy.mil) or by contacting the MyNavy Career Center at 
askmncc(at)navy.mil or 1-833-330-MNCC (6622).

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

