UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 301719Z JUN 21 MID600050738213U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 139/21 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N7/JUN// 
 
SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2022-2023 STRATEGIST AND NATIONAL SECURITY FELLOWSHIPS AND 
GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAMS CALL FOR APPLICATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/22JUN10// 
REF/B/DOC/SECDEF WASHINGTON DC/30NOV16// 
REF/C/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/25JUN20/NOTAL// 
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/141554ZJAN15// 
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/24JUN21// 
REF/F/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/08JAN15// 
 
NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowships, 
Graduate Education Programs and Community Sponsorship.  
Ref B is DODINST 1322.23, Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF).   
Ref C is the slate of AY2021-22 and 2022-23 FEF host institutions.   
Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, Establishment of the Naval Strategy Subspecialty 
2300X.  
Ref E is NAVPERS 15839I, Manual of Navy Officer Manpower and Personnel 
Classifications, Vol I, dtd June 2021.   
Ref F is OPNAVINST 1520.24D, Officer Scholarship Program.// 
 
RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN is the call for applications for the Academic Year (AY) 
2022-2023 strategist-oriented civilian graduate education and fellowship 
programs, and for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 Olmsted Scholar Program. 
 
2. Per reference (a), these programs are a primary means for developing naval 
strategists through exposure and learning opportunities at leading think 
tanks, academic institutions, and with industry partners. 
   a. Talented officers who complete these programs form a cadre of naval 
strategists able to leverage their experiences and the key relationships 
established to actively contribute toward efforts to improve Navy warfighting 
advantage. 
   b. Type Commanders and community managers are encouraged to identify 
quality candidates and encourage these future leaders to apply to these 
competitive programs. 
   c. Applicable programs include: 
      (1) Federal Executive Fellowship Program (FEF) 
      (2) Hudson Fellow Program, Oxford University 
      (3) Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows Program (SDEF) 
      (4) Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program (SD STP) 
      (5) Politico-Military Masters Program (PMM) 
      (6) Arthur S. Moreau Program (ASM) 
      (7) Olmsted Scholar Program. 
 
3. Academic Year 2022-23 applications are due to Navy Personnel Command NLT 3 
September 2021.  All supplemental information to the selection board must be 
received NLT 24 September 2021.  The selection board will convene in early 
November 2021. Results will be announced no later than December 2021. 
   a. Officers may apply for all programs for which they meet the eligibility 
requirements via a single application. Annotate which programs you are 
applying for in the subject line. 
   b. Please read program descriptions in their entirety.  Unique or 
additional application and selection requirements are set forth in 
subparagraph 'b' of each section. 
   c. Applications require a personal statement to the board, a curriculum 
vitae, biography, and endorsement letters from both your commanding officer 
and detailer, plus any unique or additional requirements specified for each 
program.  Note reference (a), enclosure 1 for a sample application package. 
   d. Service obligation is defined in individual program descriptions 
below.  Most of these programs incur a service obligation of three times (3x) 
the number of months served in the program (normally 10-12 months), for a 30-
36 month obligation. 
   e. Interested officers should submit applications for all programs via 
encrypted email to the NAVPERSCOM and OPNAV POCs listed in this NAVADMIN. 
Prior to submission, ensure electronic copies are clear, legible, and 
properly endorsed. 
If encrypted email is unavailable, mail applications to: 
 
      Navy Personnel Command 
      Attn: PERS 443B 
      5720 Integrity Drive 
      Millington, TN  38005 
f. Additional information on graduate education and fellowship programs can 
be found in the program descriptions below and 
at  https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Education/.  
 
4. Federal Executive Fellowship Program: This is a fellowship program and 
does not confer a degree. The FEF program provides selected due-course 
officers an opportunity to improve their understanding of the national 
security decision-making process through a one-year assignment at a world-
class research organization or academic institution.  Fellows will serve 
follow-on tours in a number of critical strategy, policy, national security 
decision-making, and international engagement billets on major Joint and Navy 
staffs. A successful FEF tour, combined with any previous or future masters 
degree from an accredited university, will satisfy the in-residence graduate 
education requirement for future unrestricted line flag officers. 
   a. Eligibility: Active Duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line (URL) and Restricted 
Line (RL) officers in designators 1710, 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840 are 
eligible to apply. Full Time Support (FTS) officers are not eligible for the 
FEF program. 
   b. Program information: Thirteen (13) officers will be selected for the 
AY22-23 Federal Executive Fellowship program by the PERS selection board. The 
fellowships will begin in August 2022 following a two-week orientation course 
in the Pentagon. One Navy officer will be assigned to each of the thirteen 
FEF institutions, which include: 
      (1) Atlantic Council, Washington, D.C. 
      (2) Center for a New American Security (CNAS), Washington, D.C. 
      (3) Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Washington, 
D.C. The CSIS fellow will also serve as an adjunct fellow at the United 
States Naval Institute, Annapolis, MD. 
      (4) Henry L. Stimson Center, Washington, D.C. 
      (5) Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA), Alexandria, VA. 
      (6) Hoover Institution on War, Revolution, and Peace, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA. 
      (7) Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Chicago, IL. 
      (8) Tufts University, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Medford, 
MA. 
      (9) Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government, 
Cambridge, MA. 
      (10) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Security Studies Program, 
Cambridge, MA. 
      (11) Georgia Institute of Technology, Sam Nunn School of International 
Affairs, Atlanta, GA. 
      (12) Carnegie Mellon University, Institute for Politics and Strategy, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 
      (13) University of Texas at Austin, Clements Center on National 
Security, Austin, TX. 
   c. Reutilization/service obligation: Federal Executive Fellows incur a 
service obligation three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship. 
FEF tours are normally 10-12 months. URL FEFs will serve at least one 
utilization tour in a validated naval strategist billet on a major Navy, 
Joint, or OSD staff as soon as possible, but not later than the second 
subsequent shore tour.  Some officers may serve in multiple strategy 
positions after the fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a not-
to-interfere basis with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: URL officers who 
complete a FEF tour will receive the 2300S Naval Strategy subspecialty code 
and the 24C additional qualification designation (AQD) code. IWC Officers 
will receive the 2400S subspecialty code and the 24C AQD code.  FAO officers 
will receive the 2000S National Security Studies subspecialty code and the 
24C AQD code. 
 
5. Hudson Fellow Program, University of Oxford: This is a fellowship program 
and does not confer a degree. Hosted by St. Antonys College, the Hudson 
Fellow will attend the Changing Character of War (CCW) program, led by the 
History Faculty at Oxford. CCW brings together representatives of the United 
Kingdom Armed Forces, Government, and multi-national organizations to provide 
practical knowledge in the interdisciplinary study of war and armed conflict. 
A successful Hudson tour, combined with any previous or future masters degree 
from an accredited university, will satisfy the in-residence graduate 
education requirement for future unrestricted line flag officers. 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O5-O6 URL and RL officers in designators 1710, 
1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840 are eligible to apply. The University of Oxford 
prefers post-command officers.  FTS officers are not eligible for the Hudson 
Fellowship. 
    b. Program information: The Hudson Fellowship will begin in August 2022. 
One (1) primary and two (2) alternate nominees will be selected by the PERS 
selection board. Their names, CV, biography, and research proposal will be 
submitted by OPNAV N7 to the University of Oxford for final selection of the 
one (1) fellow for AY22-23.  Applicants for the Hudson Fellowship must 
include a 2-page research proposal with their application. The Oxford 
research proposal template can be found at the MyNavy HR website under 
Education Placement:   
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Detailing/Officer/Education-
Placement/. 
   c. Reutilization/Service obligation: Hudson fellows incur a service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship.  Hudson Fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months. The URL 
Hudson Fellow will serve at least one utilization tour in a validated naval 
strategist billet as soon as possible, but not later than the second 
subsequent shore tour. Some officers may serve in multiple strategy positions 
after the fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere 
basis with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: URL officers who 
complete the Hudson Fellowship will receive the 2300S subspecialty code and 
the 24D AQD code. IWC officers will receive the 2400S subspecialty code and 
the 24D AQD code and FAO officers will receive the 2000S subspecialty code 
and the 24D AQD code. 
 
6. Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows Program: This is a fellowship 
program and does not confer a degree. This program provides a venue for 
exceptional officers to experience innovative business practices within the 
nations leading business enterprises. Military fellows from each of the 
Services are paired with senior executives in various companies known for 
their willingness to challenge and adapt their business practices. A 
successful SDEF tour, combined with any previous or future masters degree 
from an accredited university, will satisfy the in-residence graduate 
education requirement for future unrestricted line flag officers. 
   a. Eligibility: All O5-O6 officers are eligible for the SDEF program, 
including Reserve, FTS, and the Acquisition Professional Community. 
   b. Program information: Four (4) Navy officers will be selected for the 
AY22-23 program by the PERS selection board. Fellowships will begin in July 
2022. Past fellows were assigned to corporations such as 3M, Apple, Amazon, 
Boeing, Caterpillar, Cisco Systems, Exxon Mobil, J.P. Morgan Chase, FedEx, 
General Dynamics, Google, Intel, Lockheed Martin, Merck, Microsoft, Morgan 
Stanley, SalesForce.com, and SpaceX. 
   c. Reutilization/Service obligation: SDEF graduates incur a service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the fellowship. 
SDEF tours are normally 12 months in length, depending on the required 
detachment for the next duty station. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: All officers who 
complete the SDEF program will receive the 2000S subspecialty code and the 
24F AQD code. 
   e. More details regarding the SDEF program can be found at:  http 
://prhome.defense.gov/readiness/educationtraining.sdef.aspx. 
 
7. Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program: This program confers a 
Masters degree in International Public Policy (MIPP). The SD STP program is a 
one-year masters program at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced 
International Studies (JHU SAIS) campus in Washington, D.C., where students 
will develop advanced analytical and strategic thinking skills. The SD STP 
program satisfies the in-residence graduate education requirement for flag 
eligibility.  Additional program information and instructions to sign up for 
education program notifications are available 
at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-qualifications/e-
graduate-education-and-fellowship-programs. 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line (URL) and IWC (1810, 
1820, 1830, 1840) officers are eligible. FTS officers are not eligible. 
Completion of JPME I and graduation in the top 20 percent of their JPME class 
is required. A minimum of ten years of service is required. Officers who have 
already participated in Department of Defense-funded graduate education 
programs are not eligible. Those officers who earned a degree through the 
Tuition Assistance Program or Service War College retain their eligibility 
for SD STP. 
   b. Program information: The PERS selection board will nominate four 
officers to OSD. OSD will select two Navy finalists for the SD STP program. 
SD STP selectees will carry a full academic load during the academic year. 
   c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: SD STP graduates will incur a service 
obligation of a minimum of 24 months following completion of the SD STP 
program. Upon graduation, SD STP students will be considered for follow-on 
assignments that utilize their special knowledge and skills gained through 
the completion of the program. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: SD STP URL graduates 
will earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 223 AQD code. SD 
STP IWC graduates will earn the 2400P subspecialty code and the 223 AQD code. 
   e. Additional information can be found 
at https://sais.jhu.edu/admissions/masters-program-admissions/how-apply/us-
military-and-veteran-applicants/strategic.  
8. Politico-Military Masters Program: This program confers a masters degree. 
The PMM program provides junior officers a graduate education in strategy and 
politico-military affairs at leading civilian universities. The PMM program 
is a key component of the Navy Strategic Enterprise, educating naval 
strategists who will be utilized in subsequent strategy and policy-related 
billets. 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O3-O5 Unrestricted Line (URL) and Restricted 
Line (RL) 1710, 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840 designated officers are 
eligible.  This includes O2s selected for O3 and who will be promoted prior 
to the start of the academic year (July-August 2022). Preference will be 
given to junior officers (O3-O4). Full Time Support (FTS) officers are not 
eligible.  Officers who have already participated in a Department of Defense-
funded graduate education program are not eligible. Those officers who earned 
a degree through the Tuition Assistance Program or Service War College retain 
their eligibility for PMM. 
   b. Program information: Eight (8) officers will be selected for the one-
year PMM program. Selected officers will carry a full academic load during 
the academic year. The approved AY22-23 institutions and their associated 
degree programs are listed below.  Other universities that meet the Naval 
Strategy subspecialty (2300P) Educational Skills Requirements (ESRs) for PMM 
will be considered on a case-by-case basis by OPNAV N7. 
      (1) Harvard University, Boston, MA.: Mid-Career Master in Public 
Administration, John F. Kennedy School of Government. 
      (2) Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC.: Master of International 
Public Policy, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies. 
      (3) Princeton University, Princeton, NJ: Master in Public Policy (MPP) 
-International Relations, Princeton School of Public and International 
Affairs. 
      (4) Tufts University, Medford, MA.: Master of Arts in the Mid-Career 
Program at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. 
      (5) University of California, San Diego (UCSD), San Diego, CA.:  Master 
of Advanced Studies in International Affairs (MAS-IA), School of Global 
Policy and Strategy. 
      (6) University of Chicago, Chicago, Il.: Master of Arts in 
International Relations at the Committee on International Relations. 
      (7) University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA.: Master of Arts in 
Foreign Affairs (International Relations) in the Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics. 
      (8) University of Washington, Seattle, WA.: Master of Arts in Applied 
International Studies, Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies. 
   c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: PMM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program, up to 36 months total. URL PMM graduates will serve at least one 
tour in a validated strategy subspecialty billet in either politico-military 
affairs or strategy and policy, subject to career timing and on a not-to-
interfere basis with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: PMM URL graduates will 
earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty and the 24A AQD codes. The 
Education Plan (EP) for URL PMM students must be in full compliance with the 
2300P ESRs. 
Restricted Line (FAO) PMM graduates will earn the 2000P National Security 
Studies subspecialty code and the 24A AQD code.  IWC PMM graduates will earn 
the 2400P subspecialty code and the 24A AQD code. The EP for FAO and IWC 
officers must be in compliance with the National Security Studies 
subspecialty 2000P ESRs and, for FAO, developed in coordination with the FAO 
detailer. 
Details of the 2300P and 2000P ESRs can be found at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Education/Subspecialty/. 
 
9. Arthur S. Moreau Program (ASM): This program leads to a degree (PhD). The 
ASM program is two-year program for candidates seeking to complete a PhD or 
to achieve an 'All But Dissertation' status in a politico-military related 
field. 
The ASM program satisfies the in-residence graduate education requirement for 
flag eligibility. Additional program information and instructions to sign up 
for education program notifications are available 
at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-qualifications/e-
graduate-education-and-fellowship-programs. 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O5, URL-only are eligible. This includes 
O3s selected for O4 and who will be promoted prior to the start of the 
academic year (July-August 2022). FTS officers are not eligible. ASM 
candidates must already possess a masters degree from either the Naval 
Postgraduate School or a civilian university in a politico-military related 
field such as national security studies, naval strategy, strategic 
intelligence, international relations, foreign affairs, regional pol-mil 
studies, special operations and low intensity conflict, or homeland security 
and defense. 
   b. Program Information: One (1) officer may be selected for the ASM 
program. The selected officer in the ASM program will carry a full academic 
load during the academic year.  The approved ASM AY22-23 institutions are the 
same as listed with the approved PMM universities in para 7.b. Other 
universities that meet the Naval Strategy subspecialty (2300P) Educational 
Skills Requirements (ESRs) for PMM and ASM will be considered on a case-by-
case basis by OPNAV N7. 
   c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: ASM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program, up to 72 months total. URL ASM graduates will serve at least one 
tour in a validated strategy subspecialty billet in either politico-military 
affairs or strategy and policy, subject to career timing and on a not-to-
interfere basis with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: ASM graduates will 
earn either the 2300P or the 2300D Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 
24B AQD code. The Education Plan (EP) for URL ASM officers must be in full 
compliance with the 2300P ESRs. 
 
10. Olmsted Scholars: This program may confer a masters degree and satisfies 
all non-JPME educational requirements for major command and flag rank. The 
Olmsted Scholar Program offers outstanding young military leaders an 
unsurpassed opportunity to achieve fluency in a foreign language, pursue 
graduate study at an overseas university and acquire an in-depth 
understanding of foreign cultures, thereby equipping them to serve in 
positions of greater responsibility as senior leaders. This unique 
scholarship opportunity supports the Secretary of Defenses emphasis on 
developing language skills and regional cultural knowledge across the force. 
Selection for the Olmsted Scholars Program has additional requirements to 
those of other programs, and this section should be read in its entirety. 
    a. Eligibility: All active duty, regular officers with the designators 
1110, 1120, 1130, 1140, 1310, 1320, 1810, 1820, 1830, 1840, or 3100 with at 
least three years of Active Federal Commissioned Service (AFCS) and no more 
than 13.5 years of total Active Federal Service (AFS) as of 1 April 2022 are 
eligible to apply. The maximum length of service eligibility requirement has 
been extended for all eligible designators from 11 years to 13.5 years as 
part of a three-year trial program. 
    b. Program Information: The Navy is seeking applicants who display the 
warfighting and intellectual qualities of dedicated career officers who 
aspire to command.  Applicants should be available to commence language 
training in summer/fall 2022 at the Defense Language Institute Foreign 
Language Center in Monterey, CA or Washington, DC, begin two years of study 
at a foreign university in 2023 and complete their studies in 2025.  A 
detailer written /signed statement, as stated in enclosure (3) of reference 
(f), must be included in the nomination package. Olmsted notifications will 
occur in two phases. Navy nominees will be notified via email following the 
Navy selection board in November 2021. Scholars selected by the Olmsted 
Foundation Board of Directors will be contacted via email following the 
selection board in March 2022. 
    c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: Olmsted Scholars incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program and will be calculated based on the number of months the officer is 
assigned overseas. 
    d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: Olmsted scholars will 
earn the 219 AQD code and, if they complete a degree in national security 
affairs (earning the 2XXXP subspecialty code), will be integrated into the 
Pol-Mil subspecialty community and will be eligible to fill billets coded 
with the 240 AQD code. 
    e. Additional Application Information: Applications for the FY23 Olmsted 
program are separate and distinct from the application for the other programs 
covered by this NAVADMIN. These must include detailer endorsement and should 
be prepared according to enclosure (3) of reference (f) and submitted via 
email NLT 4 September 2021 to the PERS-440 and Navy Olmsted Scholar Program 
Manager POC listed at the end of this NAVADMIN. DLAB and GRE scores must be 
submitted as part of the application package. Educational Testing Service has 
provided options for those that may be impacted by COVID-19 to take the GRE. 
Details can be found 
at https://www.ets.org/gre/revised_general/register/at_home.  
Official college transcripts may be submitted via the institution to the 
Olmsted Scholar Program Manager, which must also be received no later than 3 
September 2021.  Detailed information on application requirements, sample 
application template, and Frequently Asked Questions are located on the Navy 
College website at https://www.navycollege.navy.mil/sailors/other-navy-
programs.htm. 
 
11. Points of Contact: Contact the POCs listed below for program-specific 
details and questions.  Direct all application-only questions to either OPNAV 
N712 or NAVPERSCOM. 
    a. OPNAV: Mr. Edward Fay, N712: 571-256-4782 / edward.fay(at)navy.mil; 
Mr. David Loneman, N712, 703-695-5461 / david.r.loneman.ctr(at)navy.mil. 
    b. NAVPERSCOM: PERS-440_submit.fct(at)navy.mil. 
    c. OLMSTED: Ms. Elise McGuire, N713: 850-473-6064/ 
elise.mcquire(at)navy.mil. 
 
12. Released by VADM J. W. Hughes, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Warfighting Development (N7).// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
