UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 301719Z SEP 21 MID200001181953U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 216/21 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/OCTOBER 2021 CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS MONTH// 
 
POC/LOGAN/OPNAV N2N6D/TEL:  (703) 695-
1933/EMAIL:  OLIVIA.M.LOGAN2.CTR(AT)NAVY.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month.  Cybersecurity is 
a Navy priority and we are all warriors in this evolving frontier that is 
cyber. 
 
2.  The global Coronavirus-2019 pandemic has further blurred the definition 
of a workspace, with personnel working at a military installation, an off-
site office, at home, in public spaces, or some variation of the above.  We 
must be prepared to operate in a hybrid, and potentially volatile, 
environment. 
 
3.  To win across the full range of military operations in this era of Great 
Power Competition, we must connect Navy and Joint sensors and shooters in a 
battle network that enables our forces to get from threat detection to 
decisive action as quickly as possible.  The systems, networks and data that 
enable this capability are as critical as weapons; without them we cannot 
compete, deter, and win. 
 
4.  Our adversaries understand this.  They have become more confident and 
competent in challenging us below the level of armed conflict by stealing our 
data and developing ways to compromise Navy systems and networks, including 
those that control our ships, aircraft, weapons, and infrastructure. 
5.  Virtual collaboration increases our lethality, but it also increases 
risk.  The smallest network infiltration can allow adversaries to quickly 
move to more critical targets.  A mistake by one individual could equate to a 
disaster for all.  Because the stakes are so high in this networked 
environment, adhering to cybersecurity policies and best practices requires 
an ALL HANDS approach to keep the Navy and our nation safe.  Cybersecurity 
best practices provide protection against hackers intent on exploiting smart 
phones, personal computers, and other network-connected devices. 
 
6.  During October, we will share content through Navy media channels as part 
of the national campaign for raising cybersecurity awareness.  Use this 
material to understand the threats we face and how to protect against 
them.  Each week will have a theme: 
    a.  Week One:  You and the threat to operational security. 
    b.  Week Two:  You and the threat in the office. 
    c.  Week Three:  You and the threat outside the office. 
    d.  Week Four:  The threat beyond you. 
 
7.  For easy access to this content, go to  
https://www.doncio.navy.mil/Main.aspx and select Cybersecurity Awareness 
Month announcement.  Additional cybersecurity resources from the 
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency will be posted at 
https://www.cisa.gov/cybersecurity-awareness-month. 
 
8.  We have invested heavily in capabilities to protect Navy networks, 
systems, and data.  Our cybersecurity defenders stop attacks daily.  You are 
a vital part of the cyber fight.  Every time you log onto a system or 
network, you are on the front lines of the cyber battlespace.  I appreciate 
your commitment to keeping the Navy safe by following cybersecurity best 
practices and policy. 
 
9.  Request widest dissemination.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 
cancelled or superseded. 
 
10.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
