UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 111449Z FEB 21 MID600050246281U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 034/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY-22 NAVY RESERVE FULL TIME SUPPORT LIEUTENANT 
COMMANDER RETENTION AND CONTINUATION SELECTION BOARDS//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAVINST//24JUL19//

NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1920.6D, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Fiscal Year (FY) 2022 Navy Reserve Full-
Time Support (FTS) officer lieutenant commander (LCDR) Retention and 
Continuation Selection Boards.  The FTS LCDR retention and continuation 
selections boards will convene, when required, immediately following the 
corresponding FY-22 Navy Reserve FTS commander (CDR) promotion selection 
boards.  Eligible FTS LCDRs on the Reserve Active Status List (RASL) who are 
fully qualified to remain on Active Duty and meet the requirements in 
paragraph 3 will be considered for retention on Active Duty and if required, 
continuation on the RASL.

2.  Effect of Failure of Selection for Promotion.  A Navy FTS LCDR who twice 
failed of selection (2XFOS) for promotion to CDR and whose name is not on a 
promotion list is subject to involuntary release from Active Duty and, if 
required, removal from the RASL in accordance with ref (a) enclosure (5) 
paragraphs 4b and 4c, unless the officer is retained on Active Duty and, if 
required, continued on the RASL either (1) under section 12686 of title 10, 
U.S. Code (18-year sanctuary for a regular retirement) or (2) by a FTS LCDR 
Retention and Continuation Selection Board.

3.  LCDR unrestricted line, restricted line and staff corps:
    a.  2XFOS LCDRs with less than 14 years of active service (YOAS) on the 
date of mandatory release from Active Duty under paragraph 2.
Officers selected for retention and continuation will be retained on Active 
Duty and, if required, continued on the RASL for a period of 3 years, subject 
to the limits of paragraph 3.e.  Officers released from Active Duty with less 
than 20 years of commissioned service
(YCS) may request affiliation as a drilling reservist, commonly known as 
Selected Reservist (SELRES).  To affiliate as a drilling reservist, contact 
CTO.OFFICER(at)navy.mil.  Officers released from Active Duty with 20 or more 
YCS may request continuation on the RASL and may request consideration for 
affiliation as a drilling reservist.  To affiliate as a drilling reservist, 
contact CTO.OFFICER(at)navy.mil.
    b.  2XFOS LCDRs with 14-18 YOAS on the date of mandatory release from 
Active Duty under paragraph 2.  Officers selected for retention and 
continuation will be retained on Active Duty and, if required, continued on 
the RASL until eligible for a regular retirement under section 8323 of title 
10, U.S. Code, subject to the limits of paragraph 3.e.  Officers released 
from Active Duty with less than 20 YCS may request affiliation as a drilling 
reservist, commonly known as SELRES.  To affiliate as a drilling reservist, 
contact CTO.OFFICER(at)navy.mil.  Officers released from Active Duty with 20 
or more YCS may request continuation on the RASL and may request 
consideration for affiliation as a drilling reservist.  To affiliate as a 
drilling reservist, contact CTO.OFFICER(at)navy.mil.
    c.  2XFOS LCDRs with 18-20 YOAS on the date of mandatory release from 
Active Duty under paragraph 2.  Retention Selection board action is not 
required.  Officers will be retained on Active Duty and, if required, 
continued on the RASL until eligible for a regular retirement under section 
8323 of title 10, U.S. Code, subject to the limits of paragraph 3.e.
    d.  2XFOS LCDRs with 20 or more YOAS on the date of mandatory release 
from Active Duty under paragraph 2.  Officers with 20 or more YOAS, who are 
eligible for a regular retirement under section 8323 of title 10, U.S. Code, 
will be retired.
    e. In no case will any LCDR be retained on Active Duty or continued on 
the RASL beyond the last day of the month in which the officer completes 24 
YCS under Section 14701 of Title 10, U.S. Code or the last day of the month 
in which the officer becomes 62 years of age, whichever is earlier.

4.  Reserve FTS Officers on the RASL who meet any of the criteria in 
paragraph 3 shall check BUPERS Online, via MyNavy Portal at 
https://my.navy.mil/quick-links.html, after release of the respective 
selection ALNAV message, to determine if they were selected for retention and 
continuation.  Once logged into BUPERS Online, click on 
Advancements/Selection Boards and then on the appropriate officer 
(Promotion/Continuation) board to determine the results.

5.  Promotion selection board convening dates are as follows:
    a.  Reserve FTS O-5 Line Promotion Selection Board convenes
17 March 2021.
    b.  Reserve FTS O-5 Staff Corps Promotion Selection Board convenes 8 
April 2021.

6.  Correspondence addressed to the promotion selection board will not be 
forwarded to a subsequent retention and continuation board for consideration.  
Officers must communicate with each board separately.

7.  Only eligible officers may communicate with a retention and continuation 
selection board via the letter to the board (LTB) process.  NAVADMIN 220/19 
(Electronic Submission of Letters to Promotion and Selection Boards through 
MyNavy Portal) announced the introduction of a new application known as 
electronic submission of selection board documents (ESSBD), accessible 
through MyNavy Portal (MNP).  ESSBD improves the speed, transparency and 
confidence of receipt over other LTB submission methods, such as hard copy 
and e-mail submitted letters and related attachments.
    a.  ESSBD is available for all promotion, advancement and selection 
boards.
    b.  ESSBD provides board candidates with the capability to electronically 
submit LTBs in a standard, consistent format, with or without attachments and 
will allow the candidate to see (for content and clarity) exactly what will 
be delivered and presented to the board.
    c.  To utilize ESSBD, candidates must access document services through 
MyNavy Portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/my-record.
On-screen instructions will direct the submitter thereafter.
    d.  Submission and subsequent receipt acknowledgement for LTBs submitted 
via ESSBD or other means does not constitute confirmation of eligibility for 
the boards to which LTBs are submitted.  If required, a full visual user 
guide is available through MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion.
    e.  LTBs must be received by Navy Personnel Command not later than 2359 
(central standard time) (CST) 10 days prior to the convening date of the 
respective board, as noted below.  Submitters are cautioned to not wait until 
the deadline date to submit LTBs via ESSBD or other available avenues.
Retention/Continuation      Convening Date    Due Date / Time
FTS URL/RL Board            17 MAR 21         06 MAR 21 / 2359 CST
FTS Staff Board             08 APR 21         28 MAR 21 / 2359 CDT
    f.  If sending a board package from a non-NMCI network (bumed.mil, 
eu.navy.mil, etc.), please review procedures listed in NAVADMIN 220/19.
    g.  The written communication may call to the attention of the board any 
matter concerning the record of the officer that the officer considers 
important.  Written communication may include, as enclosures, correspondence 
from any individual concerning the eligible officer.  Correspondence not 
originated by the eligible officer, including endorsement to the letter of 
the eligible officer and letters written on behalf of that officer, must 
contain a written acknowledgement by the eligible officer that he or she 
desires such correspondence be presented to the board.
Correspondence without such an acknowledgement is considered third party 
correspondence and will be returned without being presented to the board.  
Classified correspondence will not be accepted.

8.  Questions regarding LTB submission should be directed to MyNavy Career 
Center by calling 1-833-330-MNCC (1-833-330-6622/DSN:
882-6622).

9. Questions regarding retention and continuation should be directed to Navy 
Personnel Command PERS-801 at (901) 874-4533/DSN 882.
Additional information is also available at https://my.navy.mil/quick-
links.html, then click NPC.  Click Officer at the top, then Community 
Managers, Reserve OCM.  Click on the Full Time Support link and then FTS 
Continuation/Retention.

10.  This NAVADMIN will be canceled for record purposes on 30 September 2021.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


