UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 281926Z APR 20 MID110000623965U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 123/20
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N2N6//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/APR//

SUBJ/EFFECTIVE USE OF REMOTE WORK OPTIONS UPDATE//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/172159ZMAR20//

REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/022018ZAPR20//

REF/C/EXORD/FCC/201950ZMAR20//

REF/D/MEMO/DOD CIO/13APR20//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 068/20, EFFECTIVE USE OF REMOTE WORK OPTIONS.  REF B 
IS NAVADMIN 093/20, DOD COMMERCIAL VIRTUAL REMOTE COLLABORATION ENVIRONMENT 
(CORRECTED COPY).  REF C IS FCC EXORD 20-021, EFFECTIVE USE OF REMOTE WORK 
OPTIONS.  REF D IS DOD CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER MEMO ON AUTHORIZED TELEWORK 
CAPABILITIES AND GUIDANCE.// POC/ERIC MCCARTNEY/CAPT/OPNAV N2N6G32/EMAIL:  
ERIC.S.MCCARTNEY(AT)NAVY.MIL
/TEL:  571-256-8399/DSN 312-260-8399//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels reference (a) and provides updated remote 
working guidance.  We continue to refine our remote work capabilities and 
capacity to meet our mission requirements.  Please stay cyber safe and 
vigilant.  This is a joint OPNAV N2N6 and Fleet Cyber Command/C10F message.

2.  As of 20 April, more than 680,000 Navy users have been sent invitations 
to leverage the DoD Commercial Virtual Environment (CVR) introduced in 
reference (b).  If not in receipt of an invitation, perform the following 
steps:
    a.  Go to:  https://milconnect.dmdc.osd.mil/milconnect/
    b.  Click Update work contact info (GAL)
    c.  Select CAC tab and log in
    d.  Select MIL, CIV, or CTR tab, as applicable
    e.  Under Personnel Status, edit BOTH of the following drop down menus
        (1) Duty Organization
        (2) Duty Sub Organization
NOTE:  There are over 2,000 Navy organizations listed in MilConnect.  You 
will need to find and select your specific organization in the list.
    f.  Under Personnel Email Addresses, ensure it is the correct .mil email 
address
    g.  Click Submit button
NOTE:  Updating this information will make remaining Navy users eligible to 
receive a CVR invitation within 48 hours.  The invitation will come from 
info(at)email.cvr.mil, with subject line (TEAMS GENERATED) Welcome to DODs 
Commercial Virtual Remote Environment.  Ensure to check the Junk Mail folder 
as well.  Instructions for activating CVR accounts are in reference (b).

3.  Remote Work Best Practices
    a.  Security remains paramount - continue to follow all security 
guidelines in paragraph 7.  Do not allow the adversary to exploit our systems 
and collect information that could be used against us.
    b.  Be vigilant in considering whether the information you are preparing 
to transmit is Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI).  If so, adhere to 
requirements outlined in paragraph 7(b).  More information on CUI can be 
found on the second portal link in paragraph 8.a.(1), Deputy Department of 
Navy Chief Information Officer, Navy (DDCIO(N)) Corona Virus Disease (COVID)-
19 page.
    c.  Do not stream video while connected remotely or onsite; bandwidth is 
limited and must be used efficiently.
    d.  Continue to read Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) or OCONUS Navy 
Enterprise Network (ONE-Net) bulletins as they contain critical information.  
COVID-19 and remote work-related bulletins are posted on the
DDCIO(N) portal link located in paragraph 8.

4.  The Joint Force Headquarters for Department of Defense Information 
Networks
(JFHQ-DODIN) and Commander, TENTH Fleet (C10F) continue to block most 
streaming media websites to maximize operational bandwidth available for 
COVID-19 response remote work.  Echelon II commands consolidate any exception 
requests and submit in accordance with reference (c).  Submit exemption 
requests
at:  
https://intelshare.intelink.gov/sites/fcc/N3/_layouts/15/start.aspx#/Lists
/Streaming%20Video_Social%20Media%20Exemptions

5.  Remote Access Guidance
    a.  Utilize remote work options in the following prioritized order to 
facilitate maximum access for all users.
        (1) Mobikey and Enhanced Virtual Desktop (EVD)
        (2) Mobile devices with Blackberry Unified Endpoint Management (UEM)
        (3) Outlook Web Access (OWA)
            (a) Users with government laptops should access email via OWA 
vice Remote Access Server (RAS), whenever possible, to reduce the RAS 
connection load.  Users can download/upload files from OWA when using 
Internet Explorer (IE).
            (b) Users without government laptops accessing OWA utilizing a 
personal device with a CAC reader will ensure it is in accordance with 
security measures outlined in paragraph 7.a.
        (4) RAS on government laptops
            (a) Connect to RAS through one of the available gateways 
(Norfolk, San Diego, Hawaii, Jacksonville, and Bremerton).
            (b) If accessing the network via RAS:  reboot your computer prior 
to each session, access NMCI or ONE-Net as appropriate, complete required 
activities, and then terminate your RAS session.
            (c) If your RAS connection hangs up and never gets past securing 
connection, the Virtual Adapter may not be properly loading.  Contact the 
NMCI Help Desk for assistance.

6.  Collaboration Services.
    a.  Per reference (d), unauthorized cloud and collaboration capabilities 
place DoD information at risk and are not authorized to conduct internal DoD 
business.  Navy users shall use only approved collaboration tools, as 
outlined below.
        (1) DoD CVR is the Navy preferred unclassified collaboration tool 
during this period.  After the crisis, the CVR environment will be shut down 
and all data in it will be permanently deleted.  Reference (b) provides 
further details about CVR capabilities, onboarding, restrictions, and 
support.
        (2) Defense Collaboration Service
            (a) Virtual meetings at https://conference.apps.mil
            (b) Real-time chat at https://chat.apps.mil/client
        (3) Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Global Video Services 
(fee for some services)
        (4) Secure Access File Exchange at https://safe.apps.mil for secure 
and /or large file transfers.
        (5) Intelink offers collaborative capabilities including file storage 
and web-based collaboration at https://www.intelink.gov.
        (6) DoD and Navy SharePoint portals may be used for collaboration and 
file sharing, including Milsuite at https://www.milsuite.mil.
    b.  All Navy organizations are prohibited from establishing vendor 
agreements or contracts for the use of new collaboration tools during the 
COVID
-19 crisis.  Government personnel may not task a contractor to procure any 
collaboration tools or services on behalf of the government.  If an industry 
partner hosts a meeting using commercial collaboration tools, government 
personnel may participate using those tools.
    c.  Contractors are authorized to use commercially procured collaboration 
tools on contractor networks.  Do not process or store sensitive information, 
including but not limited to Controlled Technical Information (CTI), 
Personally Identifiable Information (PII), or Health Insurance Portability 
and Accountability Act (HIPAA), unless contractually required to do so.  
Collaborative tools on contractor networks are not to be used as a work 
around to facilitate remote work for government personnel.
    d.  The Naval Postgraduate School, Naval War College, and United States 
Naval Academy may continue to use existing commercially procured 
collaboration tools on Navy Higher Education Networks (NHENs).
    e.  When using non-DoD approved collaboration tools with external 
entities, such as industry partners, do not discuss, process, or transmit 
sensitive information, including but not limited to CTI, PII, or HIPAA.

7.  Security.  When working remotely, it is important to maintain physical, 
information, and cyber security to prevent our adversaries from being able to 
exploit our systems and collect information that could be used against us.  
Steps that you should take to protect information and reduce the risk of 
exploitation while teleworking are outlined below.
    a.  Physical Security
        (1) Do not use any CAC readers or CAC-enabled devices with government 
furnished equipment if they are personally procured OR have been plugged into 
personal devices.
        (2) While not prohibited by policy, it is prudent to avoid connecting 
government furnished peripheral devices to personal devices.  Individual 
commands may determine if government issued peripherals connected to personal 
devices will be dedicated to supporting teleworking requirements or may 
return to government only use.
        (3) Do not attach any personal device to a government issued device.
        (4) Do not leave your CAC in the reader when you are away from your 
device.
        (5) Use a strong, secure, private password on your personal device 
and have PIN, fingerprint, or facial recognition enabled to further protect 
your devices from unwanted physical access.
        (6) Shield your screen from anyone who does not have a need to know 
the information.
        (7) Do not connect thumb drives to government-issued computers.
    b.  Information Security
        (1) Digitally sign emails requiring message integrity, verification 
of sender identity (non-repudiation), or attachments.
        (2) Digitally encrypt emails and data-at-rest that contain CUI, PII, 
HIPAA, or all other sensitive information that should be protected against 
unauthorized access.
        (3) When you receive an alert that intended recipient(s) do not have 
a certificate for encryption, there are three corrective actions:
            (a) Refresh the email address by deleting the identified 
addressee and use the Global Address List (GAL) to select the address of the 
intended recipient(s).  If the alert is received a second time, remove the 
individual(s) from the distribution and send the email without them.
            (b) Send the identified individual a signed, encrypted email and 
request a signed, encrypted response.  This should provide you with the 
required certificates to include them in future encrypted email exchanges.
            (c) Add the recipients certificates from the Global Directory 
Service, https://dod411.gds.disa.mil/ (CAC required).
        (4) For users on OWA, Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 must be 
enabled to support encryption.  The instructions to set this up are available 
on the NMCI Homeport at https://www.homeport.navy.mil/support/articles/ie-
enable-tls/.
        (5) CUI is unclassified information that requires safeguarding or 
dissemination controls required by law, Federal regulation, and Government-
wide policy.  The CUI Program replaces existing agency markings like For 
Official Use Only (FOUO) and Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU).  Under the 
DON/Navy Policy heading on the home page of the second link in paragraph 
8.a.(1) is information on identifying different categories of unclassified 
information as well as additional requirements and restrictions on handling.
            (a) Do not save sensitive information including CUI, PII, and 
HIPAA to your personal device.
            (b) Do not auto-forward official email to commercial or private 
domains (e.g., Gmail, Yahoo, etc.).
            (c) Do not auto forward your office phone to an off-site number 
unless directed to do so by your command.
            (d) Use only approved file sharing solutions.  See the Effective 
Use of Remote Work Option and DON CIO Telework Reference Guide links under 
the DON /Navy Policy heading on the home page of the second link in  
paragraph 8.a.(1).
    c.  Cybersecurity
        (1) Install and use a DoD-recommended anti-virus solution on your 
personal devices.  All DoD members have free access to a 1-year subscription 
to McAfee antivirus software.  More information on the McAfee software can be 
found at https://patches.csd.disa.mil/Metadata.aspx?id=79775.
        (2) Secure home Wi-Fi routers by using Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) 2 
or WPA3 security, password protecting your router with a strong secure 
password, and enabling encryption.
        (3) Do not click links or open file attachments from unknown 
accounts.  If unsure of the legitimacy of an email, verify with the sender by 
phone before proceeding.
        (4) Utilize private browsing when possible and delete browsing 
history, cookies, and cache after each session to avoid compromising 
credentials.
        (5) Patching and updates.  NMCI and ONE-Net assets being used for 
telework should be connected to the network on a regular basis to receive 
patches and updates to key software components using one of the following
methods:
            (a) Bring the asset back to regular place of work weekly, or at a 
minimum every two weeks, and plug directly into NMCI or ONE-Net.  Reboot 
machine to ensure it looks for and applies all available patches and updates.
            (b) If unable to return to regular place of work due to Health 
Protection Condition (HPCON) or other limiting factors, log into the NMCI RAS 
sites at Norfolk, San Diego, or Jacksonville (not Pearl Harbor) or applicable 
ONE-Net RAS site.  For NMCI, click start, then software distribution, then 
patch connect to pull available patches and apply them to your asset.  To see 
progress of patching, click on the small up arrow icon in the system tray 
near the clock, then right-click on the blue Radia icon and choose show 
console.  This software update will run in the background until complete.  If 
possible, leave the machine connected to the RAS for at least four hours to 
receive all applicable updates, and be sure to reboot once disconnected from 
the RAS.  Please limit this to once per week, and to off hours (overnight) or 
weekends.  Fleet Cyber Command may block access to RAS patching during normal 
working hours to minimize impact to remote work.

8.  Resources
    a.  References in this NAVADMIN, Remote Work information, a one-page 
guide to Navy Telework Capabilities, and links to additional remote work 
guidance are located on:
        (1) DDCIO(N) portal (CAC required) at https://portal.secnav.navy.mil 
/orgs/OPNAV/N2N6/DDCION/SitePages/Home.aspx and 
https://portal.secnav.navy.mil /orgs/OPNAV/N2N6/DDCION/SitePages/COVID-
19.aspx
        (2) DoN CIO site (Publicly Releasable Content) at
https://www.doncio.navy.mil/ContentView.aspx?id=13279
    b.  If you need to purchase your own CAC reader, https://milcac.us/tweaks 
lists the best types of CAC readers for your personal computer operating 
system.

9.  Help Desks.  The NMCI and ONE-Net Help Desks are still the best avenue 
for help for individual users, along with seeking support with local 
representatives, such as NMCI assistant contract technical representatives 
(ACTRs).  For help with DoD CVR, see reference (d).

10.  Request widest dissemination.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 
cancelled or superseded.

11.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

