CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 271610Z MAR 24 MID120000985745U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 062/24

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FY25-2 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/06JAN21//
AMPF/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62E, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces convening of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot 
School (USNTPS) Selection Board on 20 June 2024.  This board will select 
highly qualified Naval Aviators and Naval Flight Officers (NFO) for USNTPS 
and Empire Test Pilot School (ETPS).  Test Pilot School (TPS) graduates have 
significant and long-lasting influence on platforms and systems that directly 
impact the future warfighting capability of the Fleet.  Request command and 
Fleet community assistance to identify candidates with strong operational 
performance and ideally, strong academic backgrounds in Science, Technology, 
Engineering, and Mathematic fields of study.

2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a command-endorsed application in 
line with reference (a), must be received by MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) no 
later than 9 May 2024.  Additional documentation (including Wing/CAG 
endorsements, letters of recommendation, Fitness Reports (FITREPs), etc.) 
will be accepted until 6 June 2024, but must be submitted by the applicant, 
as a letter to the board, in line with subparagraph 4a.  The e-mail 
address(es), phone number(s), college transcripts, Anthropometric Data 
Measurement Record, a current Body Composition Assessment report from 
Physical Readiness Information Management System, last FITREP, and post-TPS 
test squadron assignment preferences of the applicant must be included with 
the application.  Current ashore and afloat contact information of the 
applicant's Commanding Officer must also be included to expedite 
notification, if selected.

3.  The command endorsement shall explicitly state whether the applicant, if 
selected, will be allowed and available to report for pre-arrival training by 
the following dates:
    a.  1 October 2024 for Fixed Wing pilots
    b.  28 October 2024 for Rotary Wing pilots
    c.  2 December 2024 for NFOs
Endorsements with availability dates after these respective dates may be 
removed from consideration and not reviewed by the board.
Inability for the applicant to meet the above date may be mitigated by 
conducting initial training in a Temporary Additional Duty
(TEMADD) status at the expense of the endorsing command.  If this is 
required, it must be explicitly stated in the command endorsement that the 
endorsing command will provide TEMADD funds until the applicant can 
officially detach.  If the applicant has official Permanent Change of Station 
orders and is projected to be on board the gaining command prior to the board 
convening date of 20 June 2024, a gaining command endorsement is required in 
addition to the endorsement from the applicant's current command.

4.  Application package submissions:
    a.  The preferred method of application submission is electronic.  E-mail 
encrypted PDF submissions to cscselboard@navy.mil and carbon copy 
ernesto.r.villalba.mil@us.navy.mil and brandy.l.dempster- 
theisen.ctr@us.navy.mil.  If required, please visit
https://dod411.gds.disa.mil/ to download the required mailbox certificates to 
encrypt the email.  If unable to send encrypted, please contact 
ernesto.r.villalba.mil@us.navy.mil and brandy.l.dempster-
theisen.ctr@us.navy.mil for assistance.
    b.  If unable to send electronically, applications may be sent via U.S. 
Postal Service to the following address:
    MyNavy Career Center
    FY25-2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055
    c.  Applications sent via FEDEX/UPS/DHL should use the following
address:
    MyNavy Career Center
    FY25-2 Test Pilot School Selection Board (Board #380)
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, BLDG 768, RM E302
    Millington, TN 38055-6300

5.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by calling the MNCC at 1-833-330-MNCC or DSN 882-6622.

6.  Eligibility:
    a.  Designated Naval Aviators and NFOs through the grade of lieutenant 
commander (O4) who are qualified for flight duties and have not been 
terminated from flying status are eligible for selection.
    b.  The preferred Unrestricted Line (URL, 13X0) Aviators are lieutenant 
(O3) and O4 Aviators with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the 
selected TPS program and a minimum 24 month follow-on test tour prior to 
their next career milestone (e.g.
Department Head, etc.).
    c.  Aerospace Engineering Duty Officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of O4 may be selected if they are able to serve a 36-month follow-on test 
tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing to meet the 
minimum test tour of 24 months may have their application removed from 
consideration.
    e.  Applicants should ensure they have a valid government passport that 
will not expire prior to completion of the class.

7.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information via MyNavy HR at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Boards/Administrative/Test-Pilot/.

8.  Points of contact are CDR Ernesto R. Villalba, PERS-434B, via e- mail at 
ernesto.r.villalba.mil@us.navy.mil or Ms. Brandy Theisen, PERS-434B1, via e-
mail at brandy.l.dempster-theisen.ctr@us.navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

