UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 111536Z APR 22 MID200001660830U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 093/22

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/APR//

SUBJ/U.S. NAVY COVID-19 STANDARDIZED OPERATIONAL GUIDANCE 6.0(CORRECTED 
COPY)//

REF/A/MSG/CNO/152351ZJAN22//
REF/B/MSG/CNO/292217ZJUL21//
REF/C/MSG/CNO/301952ZAPR21//
REF/D/DOC/USD(PR)/04APR2022//
REF/E/ASN(MRA)/03MAR2022//
REF/F/MSG/CNO/221712ZDEC21//
REF/G/MSG/CNO/241805ZNOV21//
REF/H/DOC/NMCPHC/27DEC2021//
REF/I/DOC/NMCPHC/14MAY2021//
REF/J/DOC/NMCPHC/19MAR2021//
REF/K/MSG/CNO/041827ZAUG21//
REF/L/MSG/CNO/231718ZAUG21//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 007/22, U.S. NAVY COVID-19 STANDARDIZED OPERATIONAL 
GUIDANCE 5.0.
REF B IS NAVADMIN 161/21, UPDATED MASK GUIDANCE FOR ALL DOD INSTALLATIONS AND 
OTHER FACILITIES.
REF C IS NAVADMIN 086/21, UPDATED GUIDANCE TO COMMANDERS ON ADJUSTING HEALTH 
PROTECTION CONDITIONS AND BASE SERVICES DURING
COVID-19 PANDEMIC (CORRECTED COPY).
REF D IS USD P&R CONSOLIDATED DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 
FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION GUIDANCE AVAILABLE AT 
https://www.defense.gov/Explore/Spotlight/Coronavirus/Latest-DOD-Guidance/.
REF E IS ASN M&RA MEMORANDUM ON DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY GUIDANCE ON COVID-19 
COMMUNITY LEVELS AND WORKPLACE SAFETY PROTOCOLS.
REF F IS NAVADMIN 289/21, GUIDANCE ENCOURAGING COVID-19 VACCINE BOOSTER.
REF G IS NAVADMIN 268/21, REQUIRED COVID-19 TESTING FOR UNVACCINATED SERVICE 
MEMBERS.
REF H IS NAVY AND MARINE CORPS PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER COVID-19 OMICRON VARIANT 
AND BOOSTER EFFECTIVENESS.
REF I IS NAVY AND MARINE CORPS PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER U.S. NAVY FORCE HEALTH 
PROTECTION WITH CONSIDERATIONS FOR VACCINE EFFICACY.
REF J IS NAVY AND MARINE CORPS PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER DOCUMENT ASSESSING REAL 
COVID-19 RISK.
REF K IS NAVADMIN 165/21, SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY POLICY.
REF L IS NAVADMIN 180/21, UPDATE TO COVID-19 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

POC/OPNAV/CAPT SHARIF CALFEE, (703) 571-2822//EMAIL:
SHARIF.H.CALFEE.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL

RMKS/ 1.  Purpose.  This NAVADMIN provides updated COVID-19 Standing 
Operational Guidance (SOG 6.0), replaces reference (A) and cancels references 
(B) and (C).

2.  SUMMARY:  SOG 6.0 should be read in its entirety.  Notable updates 
include guidance for unvaccinated personnel, actions taken for COVID-19 
infected personnel and close contacts, and guidance for mask wearing 
underway.  All units shall refer to references
(D) and (E) for Health Protection Condition and masking guidance not 
contained in this NAVADMIN.  Personnel safety of our sailors and civilians 
remains our driving focus.  Vaccinations, vaccine boosters, command 
engagement, and personal accountability continue to form the foundation of 
our success.  Every member of every command must take personal ownership and 
responsibility of the promulgated measures required to keep COVID-19 in 
check.

3.  Applicability.  This guidance applies to all service members (active duty 
and ready reserve) assigned to, or supporting, operational units as defined 
in paragraph 5.e below.  Additionally, paragraph 7 (COVID-19 Testing) applies 
to all commands and paragraph 8 (Operating in a COVID-19
Environment) applies to all personnel onboard operational platforms.  Non-
operational forces, civilian employees and contractor personnel should follow 
the latest Department of Defense (DOD) Force Health Protection, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and state/local area guidance.
Additionally, higher echelon Commanders guidance may apply.

4.  Evolving Guidance.  The CDC is the authority for COVID-19 measures on 
behalf of the general public.  The Navy Surgeon General remains as the 
authority for Navy COVID-19 measures and advises the CNO on how best to apply 
CDC guidance across the spectrum of unique Navy operating environments, and 
may include additional measures not required by the general public.
Accordingly, and except as noted below in this NAVADMIN, evolving CDC 
guidance related to virus behavior shall first be evaluated by the Navy 
Surgeon General prior to Fleet implementation.
Questions regarding applicable COVID-19 measures may be directed to the point 
of contact (POC) listed above.

5.  Definitions.  All CDC definitions regarding COVID-19 apply and are kept 
current on the CDC website (https://www.cdc.gov).
The following additional Navy definitions are provided:

5.a.  Fully Vaccinated:  Term for an individual who has completed a primary 
COVID-19 vaccine series as defined in reference (F).  Term applies two weeks 
after the final dose is received.  During the time period from initial dose 
until two weeks after the final dose, an individual is considered partially 
vaccinated.

5.b.  Up-to-Date (UTD) COVID-19 Vaccination:  Term for an individual who has 
received all CDC recommended COVID-19 vaccines, including booster dose(s) 
when eligible.  UTD
COVID-19 Vaccine and booster guidance is subject to change and is available 
on the CDC website.

5.c.  High-Risk Personnel:  Those individuals designated by a medical 
provider who meet CDC criteria for increased risk of severe illness.  
Qualifying conditions are included on the CDC website.

5.d.  Commander:  For the purposes of this NAVADMIN, the term Commander 
includes Commanding Officers, Officers-in-Charge, Masters, and Aircraft 
Commanders.

5.e.  Operational and Non-Operational Forces:  For the purposes of this 
NAVADMIN, operational forces and non-operational forces are defined by the 
applicable NCC.  For operational forces, this might include deployed forces, 
forces in sustainment, or other operational elements that the NCC determines 
to fall within the intent and context of this NAVADMIN.

5.f.  Restriction of Movement (ROM):  DOD term for limiting personal 
interaction to reduce risk to a broader population.
Personnel executing directed ROM remain in a duty status and will not be 
charged leave.  ROM-sequester, when directed, is the Navy term for preemptive 
ROM in order to reduce risk of infection in advance of movement.

5.g.  Health Protection Measures (HPM):  Comprehensive term for mitigation 
measures that reduce the spread of COVID-19.
This includes physical distancing, wearing of masks, and enhanced 
environmental cleaning and disinfection.  Recommended HPMs are included on 
the CDC website.

5.h. Viral Test:  For the purposes of this NAVADMIN, unless specifically 
stated otherwise, viral test may refer to either a test that measures the 
antigens (antigen test) or a test that measures viral RNA (Polymerase Chain 
Reaction (PCR) test).

5.i.  Close Contact:  A person who was less than 6 feet away from an infected 
person (laboratory-confirmed or a clinical
diagnosis) for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period 
(for example, three individual 5-minute exposures for a total of 15 minutes).

6.  COVID-19 Infected Personnel and Close Contacts.

6.a.  Actions for Personnel Suspected of Being Infected.

6.a.1.  Symptomatic.  Test immediately those individuals exhibiting COVID-19 
symptoms.  If symptomatic and positive, isolate the individual per paragraph 
6.a.3 and identify close contacts per reference (D).

6.a.2.  Close Contacts.  Asymptomatic close contacts who have not received a 
vaccine booster should be tested 5 days after exposure, if testing is 
available (see paragraph 6).
If COVID-19 positive, refer to paragraph 6.a.3.  If the asymptomatic close 
contact has received a vaccine booster, testing is not required.  Close 
contacts who do not test positive for COVID-19 may remain on duty but must 
wear a mask for 10 days.  If symptoms develop, test per paragraph

6.a.1.

6.a.3.  Isolation.  Isolate individuals who test positive for 5 days or until 
symptoms are clearing, whichever is longer, including 24 hours with no fever 
and without fever-reducing medication (day 0 is date of positive test or 
symptom onset, whichever occurred first).  Isolation may be conducted either 
ashore or afloat.  Once released, individuals will wear a mask for an 
additional 5 days (minimum 10 days total).  No exit testing is required and, 
absent symptoms, prior positives should not be PCR-tested again for 90 days 
(per paragraph 7.c).

6.b.  Actions for Unvaccinated Personnel.

6.b.1.  To maintain Fleet readiness, all personnel assigned to operational 
Navy units shall be fully vaccinated.  Unvaccinated personnel shall not 
execute orders to operational Navy units.
Unvaccinated personnel shall not embark underway Navy vessels or aircraft; 
commanders of operational units shall temporarily reassign unvaccinated 
personnel from their commands with the concurrence of the first flag officer 
in the chain of command.
Exceptions, if any, will be managed case-by-case by the applicable NCC and 
reported to the POC of this instruction.

6.b.2.  Refer to medical providers unvaccinated individuals exhibiting COVID-
19 symptoms for follow-on care.  Identify close contacts per reference (D).  
Similarly, refer unvaccinated close contacts to medical providers.  Treat 
vaccinated close contacts per paragraphs 6.a.2 above.

7.  COVID-19 Testing.

7.a.  Test Procurement.  To ensure uninterrupted operations, and as feasible, 
commands will coordinate with their supporting supply activities to obtain 
testing supplies 60 days in advance of need.  This should include additional 
tests required for U.S. testing of personnel during any anticipated port 
calls.

7.b.  Testing of Unvaccinated Personnel.  Unvaccinated personnel shall follow 
the testing requirements of reference (G), as amended in reference (D) and 
below in paragraph 7.c.

7.c.  Testing of Individuals Previously Infected with COVID-19.
Individuals previously infected with COVID-19 may be asymptomatic and 
continue to test positive by PCR test for up to 90 days from date of initial 
diagnosis due to the presence of persistent non-infectious viral fragments.  
Therefore, prior COVID-19 positives are exempt from testing protocols for 90 
days from the earlier of symptom onset or first positive test (90-day rule).
Individuals who exhibit new or persistent symptoms during that three-month 
period should be evaluated by a medical provider.

7.d.  Surveillance / Ship-Wide Testing.  Surveillance or ship-wide testing is 
not required or recommended and has previously identified large numbers of 
asymptomatic persistent positives.

7.e.  Testing Priority.  Personnel exhibiting COVID-19 like symptoms are the 
highest priority for testing.  If testing asymptomatic close contacts per 
paragraph 6.a.2 or 8.g.2 will stress testing supplies, or if operations 
preclude testing
(e.g., small, remote teams or depleted 	testing supplies),
Commanders are authorized to forego testing asymptomatic close contacts.  
This prioritization is consistent with CDC guidance 
(https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/php/
contact-tracing/contact-tracing-plan/prioritization.html).

8.  Operating in a COVID-19 Environment.

8.a.  Up-to-date (UTD) COVID-19 Vaccination.  Commanders should encourage UTD 
COVID-19 Vaccination of personnel at least 30-days prior to DEPORD movements 
or inter-fleet transfers.

8.b.  Medical Screening.  Medical screening will include newly reporting 
personnel and a command-wide monthly data review and assessment, as directed 
by the NCC.  An additional pre- deployment screening will be completed 7 days 
prior to deployment.
Medical screening shall be conducted by medical providers and reported to the 
unit Commander to assist in assessing risk and mitigations.  Screening will 
include, at a minimum, vaccination and vaccine booster status, review and 
assessment of COVID-19 exposure history (those under the 90-day rule), and 
underlying risk factors.

8.c.  Military Sealift Command (MSC).  MSC shall medically screen Civil 
Service Mariners (CIVMARs) and contract personnel for deployment on MSC 
vessels in accordance with existing MSC Quality Management System processes 
and procedures.  Unvaccinated CIVMARs and contract personnel should not be 
assigned to operational units. Exceptions and associated mitigations will be 
approved by Commander, MSC.

8.d.  Fully vaccinated High-Risk Personnel.  The decision to operate and 
deploy with fully vaccinated high-risk personnel rests with the Commander, as 
advised by medical providers, who must report intentions to their immediate 
superior in command.  High-risk personnel shall be PCR viral tested within 3 
days prior to embarking.

8.e.  Pre-Deployment ROM-sequester.  Fully vaccinated personnel should not 
normally be required to ROM-sequester ahead of planned operations.  ROM-
sequester may be directed by the applicable NCC based upon Geographic 
Combatant Commander guidance and applicable host nation requirements.

8.f.  Underway HPM.  As a result of demonstrated vaccine effectiveness, a 
100% fully vaccinated operational force and a healthy demographic, serious 
illness or death resulting from COVID-19 for fully vaccinated individuals is 
statistically very unlikely, and modeling contained in references (H), (I), 
and (J) indicates this will continue in the context of current variants.  UTD 
COVID-19 Vaccination reduces the risk even further.  However, the increasing 
contagious nature of evolving variants can result in unmanageable numbers of 
even mild symptomatic positives and may impose general health and operational 
unit risk, i.e. risk to force or risk to mission, regardless of symptom 
severity.  The following HPM, at a minimum, are required:

8.f.1.  Medical screening as outlined above in paragraph 8.b.

8.f.2.  Masks.  Following all inport periods, if less than 75% of the crew is 
UTD COVID-19 Vaccination Commanders should consult with medical professionals 
and consider mask wear for the first 10-days at sea.  Similarly, Commanders 
should consider mask wear in response to the onset of onboard COVID-19.

8.f.3.  Educate and reinforce the importance of self-monitoring for symptoms 
and prompt reporting.

8.f.4.  Educate and reinforce the importance of frequent handwashing and 
social distancing, when possible.

8.f.5.  Aggressively isolate COVID-19 positive individuals per paragraph 6 
above.

8.f.6.  Ensure adequate ventilation in spaces routinely manned.

8.f.7.  Educate and reinforce focused cleaning efforts on high-touch 
surfaces, at least daily or more frequently, depending upon usage (e.g., 
tables, hatch latches, ladderwells, phones, watch console keyboards and 
buttons, toilets, faucets, sinks, etc.).  Although remote, there is evidence 
of surface spread of COVID-19 and other viruses with similar symptoms.

8.g.  Considerations for Adding or Relaxing HPM.  NCCs and Commanders should 
consider for any unit the operational impact resulting from the number of 
sailors in isolation, either ashore or afloat, regardless of percentage of 
immunized personnel, UTD COVID-19 Vaccinations, or severity of symptoms.
Commanders may elevate or relax HPM at any time, and retain the latitude to 
temporarily apply alternate HPM in lieu of isolation to support safe 
operations.  An example might be a rapid spread that compels a Commander to 
employ asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic positives to manage watch-bill 
impact while recovering others in isolation, applying additional alternate 
measures as needed to minimize spread.  The following should be considered 
before adjusting HPM:

8.g.1.  Overall number of individuals in isolation and trend.  The general 
rule of thumb for a COVID-19 outbreak trending in a favorable direction is 
that the number of those exiting isolation matches (flattening curve) or 
exceeds (lowering curve) those entering isolation, combined with the 
assessment that the total number of symptomatic individuals is manageable and 
improving, and watch-bill (operational) impact is manageable and improving.

8.g.2.  If less than 75% of the total eligible crew is UTD COVID-19 
Vaccinations, implement the requirements of 8.f.2. and consider a 5 day viral 
test for all close contacts per paragraph 6.a.2., regardless of vaccination 
status.

8.g.3.  Proximity of a units access to shore and afloat Medical Treatment 
Facilities (MTF) within a medically relevant timeline, balanced with 
paragraph 7.e HPM and onboard trend.  Rule of thumb is within 1-week of an 
MTF for 100 percent fully vaccinated crew with manageable case load, moving 
to a more restrictive 72 hours or less if a growing or concerning caseload, 
and moving to a less restrictive beyond 1-week, if small or no caseload.

8.h.  Port Visits.  Liberty is an important mission and should be pursued 
within the context of this NAVADMIN.
Geographic NCCs (GNCC) will set conditions for foreign port off-base liberty 
in coordination with country teams and local authorities, taking into account 
host country requirements, vaccination and booster status, sovereign immunity 
per paragraph 9 below, COVID-19 prevalence and mission requirements.

8.i.  Aircraft Operations.  On a case-by-case basis, aircrews and aircraft 
maintainers may be exempt from this guidance in order to meet emergent 
operational or NATOPS currency requirements.  Exemptions and mitigation plans 
must be approved by the Squadron Commander.  For aviation units embarked on 
surface ships, mitigation plans will be coordinated with the ships health 
protection plan and approved by the ships Commanding Officer.

8.j.  Post-Deployment.  Personnel returning to homeports from deployment 
shall follow CDC and U.S. Department of State travel and testing 
requirements.  If return travel includes foreign countries, personnel shall 
follow the travel and testing requirements for those individual nations, 
subject to sovereign immunity concerns (see below).
Updated travel information is on the following website:
https://travel.state.gov.

9.  Sovereign Immunity.

9.a.  It is U.S. Government policy to protect the sovereign immunity of 
warships, naval auxiliaries, and aircraft, including protecting crew 
information to the maximum extent possible.  Within the context of COVID-19, 
host nations may request or require crew or ship information that exceeds 
that authorized by U.S. policy or international law.  NCCs will ensure 
appropriate training and guidance on protecting U.S.
sovereign immunity and on the protection of health information as part of 
OPSEC/personal security.

9.b.  GNCCs should endeavor to determine in advance those host nations that 
may challenge U.S. sovereign immunity and, as able, avoid them.  See 
reference (K) for additional guidance.  In all cases, GNCCs shall authorize 
the minimum information necessary in order to meet operational requirements.
The Navy Declaration of Health (NAVMED 6210/3) is the only authorized form 
for providing health information to foreign officials.  If required by the 
host nation, and with GNCC concurrence, Commanders, at their discretion, may 
include on the NAVMED 6210/3 that their unit is 100% vaccinated, those 
disembarking have tested negative within the required timeframe, and/or that 
those disembarking have received a vaccine booster.

9.c.  Exceptions to Policy (ETP).  On a case-by-case basis, and to support 
operations, OPNAV N3N5 may grant an ETP to mitigate the operational impact of 
host nation COVID-19 requirements.  Any action that may constitute or require 
a waiver of sovereign immunity must be coordinated by the applicable GNCC 
with OPNAV N3N5 for ETP approval no later than 5 days ahead of need.  To 
avoid precedence beyond COVID-19, any ETP will be messaged to the host nation 
as explicitly linked to the pandemic.  Requests shall include justification 
for port selection; host nation mitigation and testing requirements; 
alternate port options; impact to mission if the request is denied; medical, 
legal, collection and privacy risk; and feedback from country team 
coordination.
Notifications and requests may be sent via record message traffic, email to 
the POC provided above, or both.

9.d.  Guidance for Commanders.  Per the direction of their GNCCs, Commanders 
shall comply with domestic and foreign quarantine regulations for port entry 
and document compliance on NAVMED 6210/3.  Absent GNCC approval in advance, 
Commanders will not submit to host nation COVID-19 testing nor provide 
individual or collective medical data, copies of health records, nor any 
supplementary or locally-demanded health forms, and shall not grant access to 
ship or crew health records or allow the same to be searched or inspected by 
host nations.  If compelling circumstances require a Commander to acquiesce 
to additional host nation requirements without obtaining an ETP or GNCC 
concurrence (e.g., personnel emergency, weather avoidance), report the event 
and circumstances as soon as practicable to OPNAV N3N5 via the chain of 
command.

10.  Reporting Procedures.  Reporting procedures are amended as follows and 
will be incorporated in the next revision of reference (L).  OPREP-3 Navy 
Blue messages for COVID-19 cases that do not result in death, request for 
assistance, or operational impact may instead be reported via SharePoint.  If 
unable to report via SharePoint, a single daily OPREP-3 Navy Unit SITREP 
summarizing all COVID-19 cases onboard is required.  SharePoint information 
is used to produce daily reports to Senior Navy Leadership.

11.  Released by VADM W. R. Merz, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans, and Strategy, OPNAV N3/N5.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

