UNCLASSIFIED// 
 
ROUTINE 
 
R 241240Z MAR 20 MID110000516989U 
 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
TO NAVADMIN 
 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
 
BT 
UNCLAS 

NAVADMIN 084/20 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/2020-2021 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER SCHOLARSHIP RETENTION PROGRAM 
SOLICITATION// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1520.23C/07JAN15// 
 
RMKS/1.  This message announces the Department of Defense (DoD) Cyber 
Scholarship Retention Program (CySP) for Academic Year 2020/2021 nomination 
requirements and provides details for the Navy application process.  The DoD 
CySP provides professional development opportunities to current employees who 
support DoD critical cyber functions in exchange for continued service within 
the Department. 
 
2.  The Navy encourages personnel to take advantage of the degree completion 
opportunities provided through the DoD CySP.  During a time of limited 
training resources, this program provides a viable means to fund advanced 
education for personnel who are either in a cybersecurity related position or 
are preparing for an assignment requiring advanced knowledge in the broad 
disciplines defined in paragraph 4. 
 
3.  Navy Eligibility Requirements.  Permanent DoD civilian employees may 
apply for the masters program, doctoral degree program, or associates degree 
program (nonresident, part-time, or Distance Learning (DL) programs 
available) (see limitations paragraph 4).  Active Duty and Full Time Support 
(FTS) military officers are eligible for either the bachelors, masters or 
doctoral programs (nonresident, part-time, or DL programs only).  Active Duty 
and FTS Enlisted personnel are eligible for the associates, bachelors, 
masters, or doctoral programs (nonresident, part-time, or DL programs 
only).  Nominated personnel should be high performing employees who have 
demonstrated the potential for increased responsibilities.  Nominations 
should fulfill specific personnel development requirements for both the 
individual nominee and the nominating organization. 
 
4.  Academic Disciplines.  For participation in the CySP, qualified employees 
must pursue degrees in academic disciplines that have a concentration in 
cybersecurity.  Such disciplines include, but are not limited 
to:  biometrics, computer crime investigations, computer engineering, 
computer programming, computer science, computer systems analysis, cyber 
operations, cybersecurity, cybersecurity policy, database administration, 
data management, data science, digital and multimedia forensics, electrical 
engineering, electronics engineering, information security (assurance), 
information systems, information technology (IT) acquisition, IT 
program/project management, network management /operations, software 
engineering, systems engineering, and other similar disciplines as approved 
by the DoD Chief Information Officer (CIO). 
 
5.  Participating Institutions.  The below is a brief description of the 
available programs but more information can be accessed via the Navy 
Information Warfare Outreach page on MilSuite 
at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-570743 (Common Access Card e-mail 
certificate login required). 
    a.  Graduate and Bachelor Programs: 
(1) DoD institutions offering full-time academic programs leading to a 
masters or doctoral degree are the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) 
and the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS).  Open to DoD civilians only. 
(2) Joint Cyber Analysis Course (JCAC) Partner Program: Utilizing pre 
-established National Security Agency (NSA) agreements, graduates of the JCAC 
program may transfer credits into an approved undergraduate or graduate 
programs.  A list of institutions can be found at the MilSuite link 
identified above.  Open to officers and enlisted only (part-time and DL 
only). 
    b.  Community College Program:  Community colleges designated as Centers 
of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education have been invited to 
participate in an associates degree program which offers full or part-time 
attendance options.  Individuals wishing to participate in the CySP Community 
College Program should review the potential list of institutions, which can 
be found at the MilSuite link identified above.  Not all schools listed will 
ultimately elect to participate in this program.  Therefore, it is important 
that each applicant list up to three schools.  Open to DoD civilians (full-
time, part-time, and DL options available) and enlisted (part-time and DL 
only). 
 
6.  Program Costs.  The cost of tuition, required fees, and required books 
will be covered by the program.  Civilian students will continue to receive 
their salaries from their parent commands throughout their course of 
study.  Parent commands of civilian students are also responsible for all 
travel costs, any Temporary Additional Duty (TAD) costs, and any necessary 
position back-fill for individuals selected for the program.  Prospective 
applicants should meet with their parent commands to discuss all potential 
program costs.  This meeting should provide a full understanding of what is 
expected during their education experience and upon completion of their 
academic degree. 
 
7.  Obligations.  Participants must maintain good standing in their degree 
programs and upon completion, continue in service as civilian employees or 
military members, or repay the costs of the program.  Pursuant to reference 
(a), military members shall serve on Active Duty in accordance with 
fulfilling designated service obligations of the Navy.  DoD civilian 
employees shall sign a continued service agreement with their parent 
organization or component that complies with 10 U.S.C. 2200, prior to 
commencement of their education, to continue service within the DoD upon 
conclusion of their education, for a period equal to three times the length 
of the education period.  If selected, students must sign a Student Code of 
Conduct Agreement, a Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) waiver 
required for release of transcripts, and other additional agreement forms as 
required.  Employees currently performing a period of obligated service will 
not be considered for the DoD CySP as the program does not allow for 
concurrent service obligations. 
 
8.  Nomination Package Requirements.  Applicant nomination checklist and is 
posted at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-570743. 
 
9.  Points of Contact.  Civilian and military personnel are to submit their 
application packages via their chain of command via encrypted e-mail by 22 
April 2020.  All civilian applications must be sent to the civilian point of 
contact listed below and all Active Duty and FTS military applications must 
be sent to the military point of contact listed below. 
    a.  Civilian POC:  Mrs. Dawn Cotterell, dawn.cotterell(at)navy.mil, 703-
695-1858. 
    b.  Military POC:  Mr. Curtis Bogetto, curtis.bogetto(at)navy.mil, 703-
604-6289. 
 
10.  Released by VADM Matthew J. Kohler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

