ROUTINE 
R 111954Z JUL 22 MID200080001624U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 150/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2024 NAVY SELECTED RESERVE LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND 
CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/12APR16// 
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.   
REF B IS OPNAVINST 1120.12A, APPOINTMENT OF LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS AND CHIEF 
WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE NAVY RESERVE.   
REF C IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF 
THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications 
from highly qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 Reserve Sailors 
for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 Navy Selected Reserve Limited Duty 
Officer (LDO) and Chief Warrant Officer (CWO) programs.  Where 
conflicts with reference (a) exist, this NAVADMIN takes precedence. 
 
2.  The FY-24 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO in-service 
procurement board (ISPB) will consider candidates for the following 
officer designators:  623X, 626X, 628X, 633X, 641X, 649X, 653X, 
711X, 712X, 713X, 715X, 717X, 718X, 781X, 782X and 783X.  Eligible 
Sailors are encouraged to apply for the designators for which they 
are most qualified, regardless of current rating.  Refer to 
references (a) through (c) for eligibility criteria. 
 
3.  Updated policy guidance to reference (a). 
    a.  Time-in-service (TIS) for the FY-24 Navy Selected Reserve 
LDO and CWO ISPB must be computed to 1 October 2023.  In line with 
references (a) and (b), TIS is synonymous with years of qualifying 
service toward a non-regular (Reserve) retirement. 
    b.  TIS eligibility is 8 to 14 years for LDO and 14 to 20 years 
for CWO.  However, TIS waivers will be considered and adjudicated on 
a case-by-case basis by the office for Military Personnel Plans and 
Policy (OPNAV N13).  Potential applicants outside of the TIS 
eligibility window are encouraged to contact the Reserve LDO/CWO 
officer community manager (OCM) in paragraph 10b of this NAVADMIN to 
discuss TIS waiver opportunities.  All LDO applicants must be able 
to serve at least 6 years of qualifying service and complete 20 
years of qualifying service prior to age 62.  All CWO applicants 
must be able to complete 20 years of qualifying service prior to 
reaching 62 years of age.  Applicants must also not reach or exceed 
high year tenure for their present pay grade within the calendar 
year the application is submitted.  No further exceptions to listed 
eligibility requirements in references (a) and (b) will be 
entertained.  All requests for TIS waivers must be received by 31 
August 2022.  TIS waiver requests and applications for Navy Selected 
Reserve LDO and CWO programs are two separate processes with their 
own respective submission deadlines.  Applicants who intend to 
submit applications for both the LDO and CWO programs must submit a 
TIS waiver if the candidate falls outside of either eligibility 
range.  Failure to follow this guidance may result in a late TIS 
waiver submission and subsequent disapproval of the requested 
community. 
    c.  In line with reference (b), all LDO applicants must include 
a statement in the additional comments section (paragraph 2) of the 
application, agreeing to further service, as follows:  *I, [name], 
if selected for permanent appointment under the Navy Reserve limited 
duty officer program, agree to accept such appointment and further 
agree to remain in the Ready Reserve for a period of three years 
after I accept such appointment.* 
    d.  In line with reference (b), all CWO applicants must include 
a statement in the additional comments section (paragraph 2) of the 
application, agreeing to further service, as follows:  *I, [name], 
if selected for permanent appointment under the Navy Reserve chief 
warrant officer program, agree to accept such appointment and 
further agree to remain in the Ready Reserve for a period of six 
years after I accept such appointment.* 
    e.  Commanding officer/officer-in-charge (CO/OIC) endorsement 
must contain the following statement:  *Applicant meets all 
requirements outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, OPNAVINST 1120.12A, 
NAVADMIN XXX/22 (reference this NAVADMIN), and the physical fitness 
standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J.*  The endorsement should also 
clearly state the command and COs/OICs name and rank. 
 
4.  Interview appraisal boards must be constructed and approved by 
the CO/OIC and consist of only three Reserve or Active Component 
officers.   The names of the approved appraisal board members must 
be included in the CO/OIC endorsement.  To the maximum extent 
possible, LDOs or CWOs shall be utilized as board members.  The 
senior member of the interview panel must be a lieutenant commander 
or above. 
    a.  Every effort will be made to ensure at least one board 
member is from the designator for which the applicant is applying. 
Interview appraisals should be conducted in person if possible, but 
other methods can be utilized, including but not limited to 
teleconference, video teleconference, defense connect online or 
Microsoft Teams. 
    b.  Minimum grade requirements for board members are lieutenant 
junior grade or CWO2.  CWO2 panel members must have at least two 
years time in grade.  The interviewing board should, whenever 
possible, be comprised of officers who are not in the applicants 
command, or at minimum, not directly in the chain of command. 
    c.  If it is not possible to assemble a panel of three officers, 
the interviews may be conducted separately.  Only three interview 
appraisals are required for each applicant. 
    d.  All sub-blocks contained within the "potential" section of 
the appraisal sheet (technical knowledge, potential as a career 
naval officer, and comments) must be completed for all LDO and CWO 
candidates. 
    e.  Each appraisal must contain the names of all three members 
who conducted the interview panel.  Only the current version of the 
interviewer appraisal sheet will be accepted.  Follow the 
instructions in paragraph 10 to download the most current 
interviewer appraisal sheet. 
    f.  The CO of either SEAL Team 17 or 18 is a required interview 
appraisal board member for both the 715X and 717X designators. 
    g.  All applicants applying to the 715X designator must hold NEC 
O26A or O23A.  All applicants applying to the 717X designator must 
hold NEC O52A. 
 
5.  Applicants currently serving on individual augmentation / global 
support assignment (IA/GSA) may have their application endorsed by 
their field commander.  All applications endorsed by field 
commanders must have concurrence of their parent command.  Follow 
the instructions in paragraph 10 to download a sample addendum 
letter. 
 
6.  Applicants must ensure copies of the most recent periodic 
evaluation are included in the application or subsequent addendum 
for board review and continuity.  First class petty officers must 
submit their 15 November 2022 evaluation via addendum. 
 
7.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection 
and commissioning process.  Applicants deemed ineligible after the 
submission of applications must be declared ineligible by their 
current CO, field commander (if on an IA/GSA) or parent command CO. 
Follow the instructions in paragraph 9 to download a sample letter 
of abeyance or removal of recommendation memo. 
 
8.  The FY-24 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO ISPB will convene at 
a date to be determined in calendar year 2023.  For the most current 
board dates, visit MyNavy Portal (MNP) at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/reserve- 
officer.  Select *Selection Board Schedule.*  On the right hand side 
of the page there will be a hyperlink to the board schedule.  E- 
mailed applications must be received by the MyNavy Career Center 
(MNCC) no later than (NLT) 1 October 2022.  Submit applications via 
e-mail to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mails must be sent encrypted 
using a military e-mail account to protect personally identifiable 
information. 
    a.  All addendums to packages, including any routine addendums, 
evaluations, and awards, must be received NLT 15 December 2022. 
Applications must be signed by the applicants current CO or acting 
CO (wet-signatures are preferred, digital signatures are 
acceptable).  Addendums can be signed by another officer with *By 
direction* authority if the CO or OIC is unavailable. 
    b.  Communication to the board must originate from the 
individual Service Member.  Information received that is not under 
the applicants cover letter (e.g. third party correspondence) and 
endorsed by the command or not received by MNCC by the established 
deadline(s) will not be presented to the board.  The time and date 
(central standard time) received in the MNCC inbox via e-mail is the 
time and date used for deadline verification.  Although a late 
submission may be accepted by MNCC, it will not be presented to the 
board.  All applications or addendums must have the full social 
security number of the Service Member on each page.  Electronic and 
hard copy addendums must include a command endorsement.  The FY-24 
Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO ISPB number is 24315.  Applicants 
who are unable to e-mail applications may contact the point of 
contact listed in paragraph 10a for further guidance. 
 
9.  For the most current application process visit the *Limited Duty 
Officer and Chief Warrant Officer ISPB* tab via MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning- 
programs.  Click on *Limited Duty Officer & Chief Warrant Officer 
In-Service Procurement Board* and then select *For the Reserve 
Component LDO/CWO In-Service Procurement Board click here* at the 
bottom of the page.  There you can find the section titled 
*application help* for links to the current application form, 
interview appraisal sheet, sample addendum letter, sample letter of 
abeyance or removal of recommendation memo, and a checklist for 
commands to print and include in the application folder. 
 
10.  Points of contact 
    a.  For application and eligibility questions, contact NCC Kenya 
Throckmorton, Affiliation and Redesignation Branch (PERS 92) at 
(901) 874-4456/DSN 882 or via e-mail at 
kenya.m.throckmorton.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
    b.  General LDO/CWO career path and policy, contact LCDR Dustin 
Hoskins, Reserve LDO/CWO Officer Community Manager (BUPERS 351), at 
(901) 874-3291/DSN 882, or via e-mail at dustin.a.hoskins.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2023, whichever comes first. 
 
12.  Released by Rear Admiral J. P. Waters, Acting N1B.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
