CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 211611Z OCT 24 MID120001480095U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 217/24 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 26 ACTIVE DUTY NAVY AND NAVY RESERVE E9, E8, AND E7 
ADVANCEMENT SELECTION AND MARKETPLACE SCREEN BOARD MEMBERSHIP APPLICATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/29APR20// 
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5C, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S. NAVY 
SELECTION BOARDS.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of enlisted selection board 
participants for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2026 Active Duty Navy and Navy Reserve 
Master Chief (MCPO), Senior Chief (SCPO), and Chief Petty Officer (CPO) 
Advancement Selection and Marketplace Screen Boards.  The experience gained 
from exposure to the board process is beneficial to all senior enlisted 
leaders.  Every MCPO, not otherwise restricted from participating in an 
enlisted board, is expected to serve as a member of one or more selection 
boards over the course of their tenure as a MCPO.  In order to ensure our 
board membership requirements are met, Immediate Superior in Command 
(ISIC) and/or Type Commander (TYCOM) leadership are encouraged to seek out 
the best board member candidates within your purview and direct them to 
submit applications for the FY26 enlisted selection boards. 
 
2.  Prior to submitting an application, review reference (a) which can be 
found at: https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/BUPERS-Instructions/. 
 
3.  In addition to membership criteria contained in reference (a) and on the 
Enlisted Selection Board Member/Recorder Application (NAVPERS 1400/2), the 
following also applies to selection board nominees: 
    a.  Must not have a relative or personal relationship defined in 
reference (a) serving on the same board in any capacity. 
    b.  All Active Duty and Navy Reserve relatives, to include former 
military spouses, must be listed on the application along with their rank and 
rate, even if not board eligible. 
    c.  Must not have been a member of the same board in the previous year. 
    d.  Must not be the subject of an investigation of any kind. 
    e.  If under care for any severe medical issues, the member 
shall consult with a treating physician regarding the possibility of 
travel in the time frame indicated.  The medical provider is not 
required to endorse the member's application. 
    f.  Must not have approved leave nor medical treatment scheduled 
immediately preceding or following the scheduled board. 
 
4.  Additional information pertaining to selection board membership: 
    a.  Frocked MCPOs and SCPOs screened for MCPO via the Senior Enlisted 
Marketplace may participate as selection board members and are encouraged to 
apply. 
    b.  CWO5s and CWO4s may participate as selection board members and are 
encouraged to apply. 
    c.  In select circumstances, Navy Personnel Command (NPC) may provide 
Permanent Change of Station (PCS) order modifications if an applicant with 
PCS orders is selected to serve on an enlisted selection board.  Selected 
board members should contact the Selection Board Membership Branch (PERS-805) 
at (901)874-2436/DSN 882 or via e-mail at pers-805.fct@navy.mil, if this 
applies.  Do not contact your detailer directly as they may be eligible for 
the board. 
    d.  Sailors who are attached to deployed units will not normally be 
approved.  In rare circumstances where a deployed Sailor is required, 
concurrence from a Fleet Master Chief (FLTCM) is required. 
Applicants who PCS to a deployable unit after having submitted an application 
should notify PERS-805.  If the unit is due to deploy during or close to the 
board date, applicants should request that their application be pulled. 
    e.  Active Duty and Reserve Component MCPOs are encouraged to apply for 
any of the below boards.  There are no restrictions preventing a Sailor of 
one component from serving on a board of the other. 
    f.  SCPOs and CPOs (to include frocked) may serve as recorders on any of 
the below boards for which they are not eligible. 
    g.  SCPOs and junior may not serve as members on enlisted selection 
boards. 
    h.  Recorders must be stationed in the continental United States, no 
exceptions. 
    i.  Members and recorders must have an active Government Travel Credit 
Card. 
 
5.  The application (NAVPERS 1400/2) can be downloaded from:  
https://mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/Forms/NAVPERS/. 
 
6.  FY26 enlisted board schedule (recorders report one week early for 
training): 
    a.  Reserve and Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) E9/E8 
(combined):  10 through 21 March 2025 
    b.  Active Duty E9/E8(combined):  31 March through 25 April 2025 
    c.  Reserve and TAR E7:  2 through 14 June 2025 
    d.  Active Duty E7:  30 June through 25 July 2025 
 
7.  Due dates for member and recorder applications to be received by  
PERS-805: 
    a.  Reserve and TAR E9/E8 (combined):  10 December 2024 
    b.  Active-Duty E9/E8(combined):  15 January 2025 
    c.  Reserve and TAR E7:  4 March 2025 
    d.  Active-Duty E7:  1 April 2025 
 
8.  Once the deadlines for submission have passed, gaps in memberships will 
be filled via direct assignment.  Recorder and member signed applications 
must be endorsed by the member's Commanding Officer (CO) and forwarded 
directly to their cognizant Force Master Chief (FORCM)/(FLTCM).  The 
FORCM/FLTCM will forward endorsed applications to PERS-805 via e-mail at 
pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil.  In circumstances where the applicant is assigned 
to a joint command or otherwise does not have a FORCM/FLTCM, the application 
should be sent to PERS-805 by the command's Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL), 
provided the SEL is not eligible for advancement on the board for which the 
applicant is submitting.  If you are unsure of your circumstance, please 
contact PERS-805. 
 
9.  Do not use request chits and do not forward applications through your 
command's administrative office, including those of the Command Master Chief 
(CMC)/Chief of the Boat (COB) and CO or those of your FORCM/FLTCM.  This will 
compromise board membership and invalidate your application.  Applications go 
directly to the CMC/COB, CO and FORCM/FLTCM.  Nominations received from, or 
routed through, individuals other than those noted above will not be 
considered. 
 
10.  Board membership will be held in the strictest confidence. 
Once an application is submitted, a policy of non-disclosure has been ordered 
by the Deputy Chief of Navy Personnel (DCNP).  Do not discuss applications or 
selection, if chosen to serve on a board, with anyone other than your 
CMC/COB, CO, cognizant FORCM/FLTCM, or board support personnel at NPC.  It is 
appropriate for a CMC/COB to be told by a member in the command of the 
member's board service; however, the CMC/COB may not disclose their own 
service on a board to anyone other than the CO or next echelon ISIC.  Failure 
to adhere to this policy is a direct violation of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice and will result in removal from the board and possible 
administrative or disciplinary action by DCNP. 
 
11.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominee's application and 
availability to serve as a selection board member. 
CO concurrence is required.  Do not recommend personnel who are under an 
investigation of any kind or those with severe medical issues.  If the CO 
initiates or becomes aware of an investigation after the initial nomination 
is submitted, notify the points of contact below immediately.  COs, CMCs, 
COBs, and applicants should understand that once selected, the member is 
under official orders to the board and requests for removal from board duties 
will not be granted except in extreme cases as specified in reference (a). 
 
12. Points of contact: 
    a.  Enlisted Board Membership Clerk at (901) 874-2436/DSN 882 
    b.  Membership Branch Head at (901) 874-2209/DSN 882 
    c.  PERS-805 at pers-805.fct@navy.mil 
 
13.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
