UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTINE

R 041933Z MAR 22 MID200001547363U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 054/22

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/MAR//

SUBJ/PASSING OF ADMIRAL THOMAS B. HAYWARD, USN (RET), 21ST CHIEF OF NAVAL 
OPERATIONS

RMKS/1. It is with deep sadness that I report the passing of Admiral Thomas 
B. Hayward, USN, on March 3, 2022.  Admiral Hayward served our Navy with 
honor and distinction for 39 years, culminating in his appointment as the 
21st Chief of Naval Operations. He led the Navy from 1978 to 1982, during a 
period of intense competition and challenge, marked by the rapid naval 
buildup of the Soviet Union and heightened tensions in the Middle East. 
During that time, Admiral Hayward restored pride in the Navy, created a 
climate to promote the health and welfare of all Sailors, and delivered a 
fleet that played a significant role in ending the Cold War. Our Navy and 
nation owe him an immense debt of gratitude.

2. Admiral Hayward's nearly four decades of service was shaped by competition 
with the Soviet Union and combat tours in the Korean and Vietnam Wars. He 
enlisted in the U.S. Naval Reserves as an Aviation Cadet in May 1943 and 
partway through training earned an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy.
Following graduation in 1947, he briefly served on an aircraft carrier as a 
division officer and then started aviation training. He earned his Wings of 
Gold in 1950, deployed twice to the Korean War combat zone, and fought 
courageously. During his two deployments, he flew 146 combat missions 
including a crash landing due to flak damage and was awarded a Distinguished 
Flying Cross, 10 Air Medals, and two Navy Commendation Medals with Combat 
"V."
Following the Korean War Armistice, he was selected for Test Pilot School and 
later trained squadrons on new types of aircraft, including the F9F-6 Cougar, 
F-7U Cutlass, FJ Fury, F3H Demon, F4D Skyray, A4D Skyhawk, and F8U Crusader.
He attended the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, and later assumed 
command of Fighter Squadron ONE ZERO THREE (VF-103) and then Carrier Air Wing 
TEN (CVW-10). CVW-10 deployed to Vietnam, initially operating at "Dixie 
Station" for strikes against Viet Cong and North Vietnamese troops in South 
Vietnam, before shifting to "Yankee Station" in the Gulf of Tonkin to augment 
the other carriers of Task Force 77. As the Wing Commander, Admiral Hayward 
flew 36 combat missions and was awarded a Legion of Merit with Combat "V" and 
three Air Medals. He later commanded USS GRAFFIAS (AF 29) and USS AMERICA 
(CVA 66) for two more Vietnam deployments.  Appointed a Flag Officer in 1970, 
he went on to command FOURTEENTH Naval District and later U.S. SEVENTH Fleet. 
During his time as Director, Office of Program Appraisal under the Secretary 
of the Navy, he was involved in negotiations with the Soviet Union leading to 
the Incidents at Sea Agreement, intended to lessen the chance of inadvertent 
conflict between the U.S. and Soviet Union at sea.
Remarkably, Admiral Hayward earned his fourth star in just five years, and in 
August of 1976, he assumed the duty of Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Pacific 
Fleet, with additional duty as the Naval Component Commander for U.S. Pacific 
Command. Twenty-two months after that, he assumed the office of Chief of 
Naval Operations.

3.   His service to our nation continued long past his time in uniform. In
retirement, Admiral Hayward chaired the Ethics Resource Center of America and 
worked to promote ethics curriculum and programs. He helped establish several 
Navy related museums, including the USS Missouri Foundation and the Military 
Aviation Museum. He worked tirelessly for literacy reform in public schools 
through Voyager Expanded Learning, a company he co-founded in 1994, which 
continues to serve over one million at-risk public school children.

4.  Admiral Hayward enjoyed 68 wonderful years of marriage to his lovely, 
late wife Margaret.  He is survived by his two daughters, Colleen and 
Cynthia; his grandson, Max, and his wife, Wendy; and his great-grandchildren, 
Austin and Zoe.  He was a true patriot, loyal public servant, and committed 
husband, father, and friend.  He will be sorely missed by our entire Navy 
family.

5.  Released by Admiral Michael M. Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

