UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 141518Z MAR 22 MID200001581584U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 066/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/BACCALAUREATE DEGREE COMPLETION PROGRAM// 
 
REF/A/DOC/23FEB22// 
REF/B/DOC/8JUN15// 
 
NARR/REF A IS PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 147, THE BACCALAUREATE DEGREE COMPLETION 
PROGRAM.   
REF B IS NAVMED P-117, MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for the Baccalaureate 
Degree Completion Program (BDCP).  The BDCP is a collegiate program 
that provides a financial incentive to college students to complete 
their baccalaureate degree and earn a commission as an unrestricted 
line officer (URL) upon successful completion of Officer Candidate 
School (OCS).  The BDCP boards will convene in conjunction with 
professional recommendation boards to select 50 highly qualified 
applicants to attend OCS during the fiscal year 2023 and beyond 
shipping years.  Applications will be accepted for the following URL 
designators:  aviation (pilot and naval flight officer), special 
warfare (SEAL), special operations and surface warfare officer. 
Candidates interested in the nuclear officer (submarine and surface) 
communities should refer to the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate 
Program (Program Authorization (PA) 100A). 
 
2.  This program is open to civilians, enlisted personnel in the 
Navy Reserve (Active or Inactive Reserve) and enlisted personnel in 
the Reserve Components of other Armed Services (Inactive).  Inactive 
Reserve personnel from other components must be discharged or 
released from their service obligation prior to acceptance to the 
BDCP.  Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) Midshipmen who 
have received pay entitlements, subsistence allowance, tuition or 
fees are not eligible.  All applicants must be U.S. citizens. 
 
3.  Education requirements for application to the BDCP 
    a.  Applicants must be enrolled in or accepted for transfer to a 
regionally accredited four-year college or university that does not 
have an established NROTC unit or NROTC cross-town agreement. 
    b.  Applicants must have completed at least 60 semester or 90 
quarter hours of credit from an accredited college or university. 
Applicants who have already completed their baccalaureate degree 
should apply for direct accession OCS programs outlined in PAs 100, 
100D, 100E and 106. 
    c.  Applicants must have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) 
of at least 2.8 on a 4.0 scale.  No waivers below 2.8 will be 
authorized. 
    d.  Major.  No restrictions, however, majors in science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics or those studies which have 
a direct application to a naval career will be given strong 
consideration at the selection board. 
    e.  BDCP selectees complete college as full-time students 
attending all normal school sessions (two semesters or three 
quarters) at a minimum. 
    f.  Official transcripts must be submitted to Commander, Navy 
Recruiting Command (CNRC) upon completion of each school term. 
Selectees will be disenrolled if they fail to disclose complete 
academic transcripts or if there is evidence of transcript tampering 
in any way.  Please see reference (a) for additional GPA and 
enrollment requirements. 
    g.  Baccalaureate degree requirements must be fulfilled within 
24 months.  Selectees must have an approved degree completion plan 
prior to enlistment in order to determine the projected graduation 
date. 
    h.  Participation in non-mandatory co-op or work study program 
will not be authorized if such participation will cause a delay in 
the projected graduation date. 
    i.  BDCP selectees will not be permitted to extend their 
projected graduation date, cease attending classes, change majors, 
enter exchange programs or transfer schools without specific 
approval of CNRC.  Failure to obtain permission may result in 
disenrollment. 
 
4.  Additional BDCP Requirements 
    a.  Applicants must meet pre-commissioning/accession physical 
standards in line with reference (b), as well as any additional 
requirements imposed by the PA for the specific designator for which 
they have applied. 
    b.  Applicants must be within the prescribed age limits and meet 
designator-specific testing requirements (such as aviation selection 
test battery, officer aptitude rating and physical screening test) 
in line with the PA for which they are applying for.  No waivers 
will be accepted. 
 
5.  Applicants may only request consideration for one community in 
their application.  Interested SEAL officer candidates should 
contact the SEAL Officer Community Manager (OCM) (OPNAV N137) to 
fully understand the unique timing of their selection process. 
 
6.  Benefits 
    a.  BDCP selectees will receive full pay and allowances (except 
clothing) at the rate of Officer Candidate Petty Officer (OCPO) 
Third Class, but must pay for tuition, books and other school 
related expenses. 
    b.  Selectees who make the deans list during two consecutive 
semesters or three consecutive quarters are eligible for a one-time 
meritorious advancement (maximum E-6) on the first day of the month 
following completion of 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours in the 
program. 
    c.  Any BDCP selectee who provides CNRC a referral which results 
in an accession to an officer commissioning program (collegiate, 
direct appointment or direct commission) will be eligible for a one- 
time advancement to the next higher paygrade (maximum E-6). 
    d.  Both opportunities will allow for two possible advancements 
up to OCPO1 (E-6) (maximum) while in the program, one for academic 
achievement and one for a referral leading to an officer accession. 
    e.  Upon completion of baccalaureate degree requirements, 
selectees will be advanced to OCPO2 (E-5), if not previously 
advanced.  Selectees who have previously advanced to OCPO1 will 
maintain their current paygrade.  All BDCP selectees who have 
completed baccalaureate degree requirements will maintain pay and 
benefits while awaiting enrollment in the next available OCS class. 
 
7.  Enlistment requirements.  BDCP selectees will be required to 
enlist in order to receive pay and financial incentives for joining 
the BDCP.  After enlisting, selectees will be ordered to the nearest 
Navy Talent Acquisition Group (NTAG).  Selectees will be placed in 
an Active-Duty status as OCPO3s (E-4) and graduate as OCPO2s in the 
Navy Reserve and will incur all rights and responsibilities thereof. 
If already in the Navy Reserve, selectees will be placed in an 
Active-Duty status at their current rank, if higher.  The NTAG will 
be responsible for coordinating management and administration of 
BDCP selectees including indoctrination, physical readiness testing, 
urinalysis, identification cards, service records, pay and other 
administrative requirements until they report to OCS. 
 
8.  Service obligation 
    a.  BDCP selectees must volunteer to serve four-years Active- 
Duty from the date of enlistment.  This obligation is superseded 
automatically upon earning a commission. 
    b.  Commissioned Active-Duty obligated service will be as 
required by the appropriate designator PA in effect at the time of 
enlistment.  Total commissioned service obligation is eight years. 
This obligation may be served as a combination of active service and 
reserve service, with a minimum active service obligation of four 
years (or longer, depending on the specific PA). 
    d.  BDCP selectees who disenroll or attrite from this program 
prior to commissioning for any reason other than medical or physical 
disqualification will normally be required to complete recruit 
training, unless previously graduated from Navy recruit training, 
and serve on active duty for 24 months.  CNRC or Director, OCS may 
effect orders to recruit training.  Enlisted Active-Duty will 
normally commence within 60 days of disenrollment. 
    e.  If not physically qualified for commissioning or enlistment, 
BDCP selectees will be discharged.  The type of discharge and 
reenlistment code will be determined by CNRC with recommendation 
from the applicable OCM. 
    f.  Selectees who become not physically qualified for 
commissioning but who are physically qualified for enlistment may be 
made available for recruit training or discharged as desired by the 
BDCP candidate. 
    g.  Selectees who become not physically qualified for a 
previously approved designator shall submit a change of designator 
request to CRNC who will coordinate the request with Military 
Community Management Office (BUPERS-3) prior to candidate attendance 
at OCS. 
    h.  Selectees who attrite will be administratively reduced to 
paygrade E-3 prior to entry to recruit training. 
    i.  No specialized Navy training will be authorized following 
recruit training unless the member agrees to extend Active-Duty 
obligation to meet the service obligation of the training program 
requested. 
 
9.  Indoctrination 
    a.  Upon receiving a baccalaureate degree, BDCP selectees will 
be assigned to the next available OCS class.  All selectees shall 
complete OCS in Newport, RI.  If a selectee fails to successfully 
complete OCS for any reason other than injury, that selectee will be 
required to serve the remainder of their enlisted contract. 
     b.  Follow-on training will be in line with the PA for the 
specific designator for which they will be accepted. 
 
10.  Applicants interested in applying for BDCP as well as inquiring 
about board convening dates and deadlines should contact their local 
Navy officer recruiter or command career counselor (if interested 
member is in the Navy Reserve).  Additionally, questions may be 
referred to the BDCP Program Manager:  LCDR James Barfoot, Branch 
Head, General Officer Accessions (CNRC N311) at (901) 874-9419 or 
via e-mail at james.e.barfoot.mil(at)us.navy.mil.  Questions 
concerning the SEAL program may be referred to the SEAL OCM (OPNAV 
N137) at (703) 604-5005 or via e-mail at SEAL_OCM(at)navy.mil. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 28 
February 2024, whichever occurs first. 
 
12.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
