UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 081827Z MAR 22 MID200001562387U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 061/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
 
SUBJ/2022 NAVAL HISTORY AND HERITAGE COMMEMORATION - VIETNAM WAR// 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR// 
 
RMKS/ 1. U.S. Navy advisors first arrived in South Vietnam in late 1954 
to provide material support and training for the Republic of Vietnam Navy. 
As conflicts in the country continued to mount in the early 1960s, so did the 
efforts of the U.S. Navy. Following the passage of the Gulf of Tonkin 
Resolution, direct actions against North Vietnam increased significantly with 
U.S. Navy assets performing an extensive array of missions. The U.S. Navy 
deployed a total of 17 aircraft carriers that made 73 deployments to the 
South China Sea. TF-77, the attack carrier task force, varied in size, but 
during surges included five carriers, 400 aircraft, 25 escort and support 
ships and 30,000 Sailors. 
This task force, along with Marine aviators, dropped 1.5 million 
tons of bombs during the course of the war-approximately 24 percent 
of the total tonnage dropped by America in the air war. Navy advisors 
and liaison officers helped grow the South Vietnamese Navy from a small 
force of 22 ships in 1955 to over 1,000 ships and coastal/riverine patrol 
craft in 1972. In partnership with the South Vietnamese, the U.S. Navy 
developed a highly effective inshore blockade to prevent the resupply of 
enemy forces by sea, engaged in naval gunfire support missions in the 
littoral and riverine areas of Vietnam, and provided amphibious transport for 
Marines operating ashore.  Patrol aircraft also helped enforce the coastal 
blockades. 
On the rivers, the Navy stood up several task forces that protected 
commercial traffic, assisted allied ground forces in pacifying these areas, 
and interdicted enemy troops and supplies moving on these inland waterways. 
Navy SEALs initially served as advisors and then carried out critical 
reconnaissance and operational missions.  The Seabee presence in Vietnam grew 
from one battalion of 600 in 1965 to over 10,000 Sailors. Seabees built 
helicopter pads, airfield runways, and hangars at Chu Lai, Danang, and Phu 
Bai.  They also built port facilities, maintained vital roads, and erected 
thousands of bridges. Navy medicine also played a key role, serving not only 
in the station hospitals and aboard ship, but as the corpsmen and doctors 
assigned to USMC ground units. The Navy's intelligence professionals carried 
out their primary mission of providing forces with information to save lives 
and improve battle performance.  The Navy's logistical support for the war 
ranged from sea and airlift of supplies and personnel to the theater of 
operations, to base building, medical, and administrative support on the 
ground. Much of the material assistance provided to the Vietnamese people 
came by sea, as did 99 percent of the ammunition and fuel and 95 percent of 
the supplies, vehicles, and construction resources required for the war 
effort. A total of 1.842 million Sailors served in Southeast Asia. Overall, 
the Navy suffered the loss of 1,631 Sailors killed and 4,178 wounded during 
the course of the 11-year war. 
 
2. To ensure the sacrifices of the 9 million who served during this difficult 
chapter of our country's history are remembered for generations to come, the 
Vietnam War Veterans Recognition Act of 2017 designates 29 March of each year 
as National Vietnam Veterans Recognition Day.  This is a significant that 
marks the day when U.S. troops left Vietnam in 1973.  On 29 March, we will 
honor all those who answered our Nation's call to duty. We vow to never again 
confuse personal disapproval of war with prejudice against those who 
honorably wear the uniform of our Armed Forces. We reaffirm one of our most 
fundamental obligations: to show all who have worn the uniform of the United 
States the dignity and respect they deserve and to honor their sacrifice by 
serving them as well as they served us.  The Vietnam veterans have been hit 
hard in recent years with illnesses and advancing age. With conviction, our 
Nation pledges our enduring respect, our continuing care, and our everlasting 
commitment to all Vietnam Veterans. 
 
3.  Mission. Meet the Vietnam War Veterans Recognition Act's intent by 
honoring and recognizing Vietnam Veterans for their service to the Nation and 
Navy. 
 
4.  Commander's Intent 
    a.  Purpose. Commemorate National Vietnam War Veterans Day throughout the 
    Navy on 29 March 2022. 
    b.  Method. Command-centric execution of a coordinated Navy-wide National 
    Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration. 
        (1) Use available Navy outreach assets to maximum extent possible. 
        (2) Be guided by, and supportive of reference (b), as found on the 
        Navy's flagship website (https://www.navy.mil/). 
    c.  End State: The National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration 
continues to be an annual fleet commemoration and Navy pride event observed 
globally through the end of the commemoration in 2025. 
 
5.  Tasks 
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the National Vietnam War Veterans Day commemoration. 
    b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC) Director, will serve as 
chairman of the NHHC role with the commemoration, with the Outreach Branch of 
the Communication and Outreach Division (COD) as the lead for planning. 
    (1) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by all Navy commands. 
            (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous Vietnam War 
Commemoration ceremonies. 
    (2) Coordinate and support the execution of the commemoration events to 
include the execution of a Navy-wide observation and supporting community 
outreach events. 
    (3) Conduct National Vietnam War Veterans Day Ceremony at Navy museums at 
1200 local on 29 March 2022. 
            (a) National Museum of the U.S. Navy.  Washington Navy Yard, 
            Washington, DC.   
POC: James Chris Rentfrow/james.c.rentfrow.civ(AT)us.navy.mil/202-433-8502. 
            (b) National Naval Aviation Museum.  Pensacola, FL.  
POC: Hill Goodspeed/hill.goodspeed(AT)navy.mil/ 850-452-3604 x3135. 
            (c) Naval War College Museum.  Naval Station Newport, Newport,RI. 
POC: Ryan Meyer/ryan.meyer(AT)usnwc.edu/401-841-1296. 
            (d) United States Naval Academy Museum.  U.S. Naval Academy, 
Annapolis, MD.  
POC Sarah McGlone sarah.e.mcglone.civ(AT)us.navy.mil /410-293-5254. 
            (e) United States Navy Seabee Museum.  Naval Base Ventura County 
Port Hueneme, Port Hueneme, CA.  
POC: Lara Godbille/lara.godbille(AT)navy.mil/805-982-5167. 
            (f) National Museum of the American Sailor.  Naval Station Great 
            Lakes, Great Lakes, IL.  
POC: Jennifer Searcy/jennifer.searcy.civ(AT)us.navy.mil/nmas.fct(AT)navy.mil/ 
847-688-3154. 
            (g) Hampton Roads Naval Museum.  Norfolk, VA.  
POC: John Pentangelo/john.pentangelo(AT)navy.mil/757-322-2990. 
            (h) Puget Sound Navy Museum. Bremerton, WA.  
POC: Lindy Dosher/lindy.dosher(AT)navy.mil/360-396-4164. 
            (i) Naval Undersea Museum. Keyport, WA.  
POC: Danelle Eaton/danelle.n.eaton.civ(AT)us.navy.mil /360-627-2275. 
            (j) Submarine Force Museum and Library. Groton, CT.   
POC: LCDR Derek A. Sutton/derek.a.sutton2.mil(AT)us.navy.mil USN SFM (USA) 
860-694-4276. 
       (4) Develop a commemoration toolkit for use by all Navy commands. 
            (a) Develop and make available a body of lessons learned at the 
tactical, operational, and strategic levels from previous Vietnam War 
Commemoration events. 
            (b) Post all documents and associated points of contact on the 
NHHC website (https://www.history.navy.mil/) NLT 11 March 2022. 
      (5) Develop a Vietnam War Commemoration Communication Plan, including 
public affairs guidance, and provide to Chief of Naval Information (CHINFO) 
for dissemination to the fleet by 11 March 2022. 
      (6) Compile VIETNAM WAR COMMEMORATION lessons learned from stakeholders 
and provide to DNS NLT 15 April 2022. 
    c.  Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command (USFFC); Commander, U.S. Pacific 
Fleet (COMPACFLT); Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC); Naval 
Education and Training Command (NETC); Commander, Navy Reserve Force Command 
(COMNAVRESFORCOM); Commander, Naval Recruiting Command (COMNAVCRUITCOM); and 
other commands as required. 
        (1) Provide representatives as necessary to support the 
commemoration. 
        (2) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and commemorate the event. 
        (3) Execute the VIETNAM WAR COMMEMORATION Communication Plan, 
disseminated by CHINFO, and participate in planned community outreach 
activities as operationally feasible. 
    d.  CHINFO: 
        (1) Disseminate the Vietnam War Commemoration Communication Plan to 
        ashore and afloat commands by 11 March 2022.  This plan should 
include Navy's strategic message and talking points for this event. 
        (2) Provide VIETNAM WAR COMMEMORATION metrics and any lessons learned 
to NHHC NLT 15 April 2022. 
 
5.  Coordinating Instructions: Additional coordination instructions and 
tasking to be provided by separate correspondence (SEPCOR) as needed. 
 
6.  Administrative: 
    a.  The VIETNAM WAR COMMEMORATION toolkit will is available at the NHHC 
website (https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic/commemorations-
toolkits/Vietnam-War-Veterans-Day.html). 
    b.  Public Affairs Guidance: 
        (1) The public affairs posture is active for this commemoration and 
all supporting events. 
 
8.  Point of contact.  NHHC POC is Eric Ritter eric.d.ritter.civ@us.navy,mil; 
NHHC main number: (202) 433-7880. 
 
9.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
