UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 211525Z SEP 20 MID510001736816U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 261/20 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC// 
 
SUBJ/2020-2021 NAVY INFLUENZA VACCINATION AND REPORTING POLICY// 
 
REF/A/DOC/DHA-PI/6025.34// 
REF/B/DOC/DODI/6025.02/23JUL2019// 
REF/C/DOC/32 CFR PART 199.21/1DEC2016// 
 
NARR/REF A IS THE DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY PROCEDURAL INSTRUCTION 6025.34 
GUIDANCE FOR THE DOD INFLUENZA VACCINATION PROGRAM (IVP).   
REF B IS THE DODI 6025.02 INDIVIDUAL MEDICAL READINESS ADDRESSING 
RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES FOR MONITORING AND ON INDIVIDUAL MEDICAL 
READINESS.   
REF C IS 32 CFR PART 199.21, CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE 
UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)/TRICARE:  TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PROGRAM.// 
POC/LCDR MATTHEW HALL/BUMED M4/(703) 681-9120/EMAIL: 
MATTHEW.T.HALL24.MIL(AT)MAIL.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  Influenza or "flu" has the potential to adversely impact Navy force 
readiness and mission execution.  The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) believes it is likely that influenza viruses and the virus 
that causes COVID-19 will be circulating this coming fall and winter. In this 
context, getting an influenza vaccination will be more important than ever. 
 
2.  Influenza Vaccination and Reporting 
    a.  Influenza Disease Prevention.  Vaccination is the primary method to 
reduce the risk of influenza by enhancing force immunity.  Maintaining a 
clean work environment, practicing good hygiene, and managing workforce 
exposure (e.g., social distancing, teleworking, and sick leave) are effective 
methods to reduce the risk of spreading influenza. 
    b.  Influenza Vaccine.  Two influenza vaccines, Northern Hemisphere (NH) 
and Southern Hemisphere (SH), are available based on service member location 
and timing requirements, as described in reference (a).  The 2020-2021 
Department of Defense (DoD) influenza vaccine supply will be comprised of 
injectable vaccines.  Intranasal vaccine will not be provided through the 
central ordering process. 
    c.  Influenza Vaccine Priority.  U.S. Navy ships, operational assets, and 
training commands have been identified by the DoD and the Department of the 
Navy (DON) as vaccine priority groups for the 2020-2021 influenza season. 
    d.  Influenza Vaccine Ordering.  The DON influenza vaccine is centrally 
funded. The Vaccine Information and Logistics System (VIALS) is the online 
requisition system for the seasonal influenza vaccine.  VIALS electronically 
tracks requisitioned vaccine via Military Standard Requisitioning and Issuing 
Procedure (MILSTRIP) from requisition to receipt.  The VIALS Web site is 
common access card enabled:   
https://gov_only.nmlc.med.navy.mil/int_code03/vials/. 
    e.  The Naval Medical Logistics Command (NAVMEDLOGCOM) is responsible for 
ordering and distributing influenza vaccine for all Navy and Marine Corps 
activities.  Additional quantities required and/or changes in submitted 
orders must be coordinated with the NAVMEDLOGCOM Influenza Vaccine Manager, 
DSN: (312) 343-8054 or the Vaccine Information and Logistics System (VIALS) 
helpdesk at: usn.detrick.navmedlogcomftdmd.list.vialhelp(AT)mail.mil. 
    f.  Influenza Vaccine Shipping.  All commands will verify their correct 
shipping address and point of contact information in VIALS to ensure prompt 
delivery. 
    g.  Influenza Vaccine Integrity.  (Temperature Monitors).  All Influenza 
vaccine shipments include temperature monitors.  All monitors must be 
returned to the Defense Logistics Agency Troop Support Medical (DLA-TSM) cold 
chain office after receipt, per the included instructions and shipping 
materials, and must comply with the following guidance regarding use of those 
doses: 
        (1) No Alarm Status.  The doses are ready for immediate use. 
        (2) Alarmed Status.  Do not administer those doses.  Segregate them 
in an appropriate vaccine storage refrigerator, clearly label "DO NOT USE," 
immediately return temperature monitor to DLA-TSM, and await DLAs disposition 
of those doses. 
    h.  Influenza Vaccine Exercise 
        (1) During previous influenza seasons, exercises have been used to 
evaluate mass vaccination scenarios while accomplishing vaccine distribution. 
These coordinated mass vaccination campaigns provide rapid and efficient 
vaccinations to protect the maximum number of susceptible persons.  Process 
improvements are made to delivery and reporting procedures based on lessons 
learned.  Ensure masking, social distancing, group size limitations, and 
other appropriate precautions during any mass vaccination exercises, if 
undertaken. 
The Seasonal Influenza Resource Center 2020-21 available via 
https://www.health.mil/Military-Health-Topics/Health-Readiness/Immunization -
Healthcare/Vaccine-Preventable-Diseases/Influenza-Seasonal/Influenza-
Resource-Center contains different resources for the 2020-21 influenza 
season. 
        (2) Installations and Medical Treatment Facilities (MTFs) may also 
consider using the Navy Family Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS) 
to conduct a Pandemic Influenza response exercise in conjunction with the 
seasonal influenza vaccine program. 
        (3) Vaccine Delivery.  Due to vaccine demand and manufacturer 
limitations, complete vaccine delivery may not occur until mid-
November.  This delay will unintentionally test the ability to conduct rapid 
and complete mass vaccination exercises. 
    i.  Influenza Vaccination Compliance 
        (1) Navy Military Personnel.  The seasonal influenza vaccination is 
mandatory for all DoD uniformed personnel who are not medically or 
administratively exempt, per references (a) and (b).  Any refusal to receive 
the influenza vaccine will constitute a failure to obey a lawful order and 
may be punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and/or result in 
administrative action.  Prior to receiving the influenza vaccine, Navy Active 
and Reserve Component personnel will have access to healthcare providers to 
address questions or concerns with influenza vaccination.  Commands must 
consult with the servicing Staff Judge Advocate General and cognizant 
Preventive Medicine authority for additional guidance on influenza 
vaccination non-compliance. 
        (2) Navy Civilian Personnel.  Influenza vaccination is required for 
all civilian healthcare personnel, per reference (a), and is strongly 
encouraged for all other Navy civilian employees. 
        (3) TRICARE Beneficiaries.  Reference (c) authorizes retail network 
pharmacies to administer the seasonal influenza vaccine.  TRICARE 
beneficiaries may receive influenza vaccinations with no co-pay at authorized 
retail network pharmacies.  Beneficiaries are encouraged to contact the 
pharmacy regarding age restrictions as some pharmacies do not administer the 
influenza vaccine to individuals younger than 18 years of age. 
    j.  Influenza Vaccination Reporting.  All influenza vaccinations of 
Service Members shall be documented in the Medical Readiness Reporting System 
(MRRS) as well as the Electronic Health Record (EHR).  Active and Reserve 
Component Navy influenza vaccination administration will be monitored via 
MRRS.  Designated command personnel will access MRRS to track their personnel 
to ensure compliance.  Civilian vaccination administration compliance will be 
monitored and tracked via AHLTA and/or other electronic tracking. 
        (1) Shore-based commands will request access to MRRS based on their 
unit identification code by submitting a system access authorization request 
available at:  //mrrs.dc3n.navy.mil/mrrs (note:  MRRS Web address is case 
sensitive). 
Point of contact:  MRRS program office and e-mail:  mill_mrrs(AT)navy.mil 
(800) 537-4617/(504) 697-7070/DSN: (312) 647-7070. 
        (2) Commands must ensure documentation of influenza vaccine 
administration is coded to accurately reflect the type of vaccine given. 
        (3) Afloat units will enter influenza immunizations into the 
Shipboard Automated Medical System (SAMS) or the Theater Medical Information 
Program Maritime (TMIP-M). 
        (4) All personnel who receive the vaccination from a retail network 
pharmacy must provide documentation of vaccination no later than the next 
work day (or next drill day for Reserve personnel) to ensure compliance is 
appropriately recorded in MRRS and the EHR. 
    k.  Influenza Vaccination Timeline 
        (1) Due to the risk of infection transmission within the unit and 
impact on operations, it is imperative that the vaccine be given with as 
minimal delay as possible.  Active duty operational units have 72 hours 
(three work days) following receipt of the vaccine to administer and document 
vaccination.  The 72-hour requirement begins immediately only if the 
temperature monitor is in "no alarm" status upon receipt; if in "alarmed" 
status the timed requirement begins once / if the vaccine is cleared for use 
by DLA-TSM.  If the 72-hour requirement cannot be met, unit situation reports 
will be submitted to the respective Immediate Superior in Command and Type 
Commanders.  Situation reports are not required if the temperature monitor is 
in alarmed status and the unit is awaiting disposition from DLA-TSM. 
        (2) As Reserve Component Command schedules vary, NAVMEDLOGCOM and DLA 
-TSM will coordinate to make every effort for the vaccine to arrive the week 
of a drill weekend.  Units have one drill weekend following receipt of the 
vaccine to administer and document vaccination if the temperature monitor is 
in a "no alarm" status.  If in "alarmed" status, the timed requirement begins 
once/if the vaccine is cleared for use by DLA-TSM. 
    l.  Navy Goals and Performance Standards 
        (1) To ensure force medical readiness before peak influenza season, 
all Navy operational units and Navy Medicine Readiness and Training Commands 
and Units (NMRTC/Us) will administer the 2020-2021 influenza vaccination to 
exceed the 90 percent vaccination goal by 15 December 2020 for Active and 
Reserve Components.  Complete vaccine access will be provided for the entire 
Navy family (including dependents, other beneficiaries, and DON 
civilians).  Active coordination between command leadership, public affairs 
officers, and medical personnel is necessary to achieve success. 
        (2) Influenza Vaccination Performance Standards.  The following goals 
will be monitored: 
            (a) Navy VIALS reports 100 percent of shipped vaccine received 
onboard by fleet and Navy units by 1 December 2020. 
            (b) MRRS reports 90 percent of Active and Reserve Component 
vaccinated by 15 December 2020.  Commands will coordinate with the servicing 
MTF to align command-wide vaccinations with Navy vaccination goals.  Medical 
personnel at servicing MTFs will promptly report vaccinations in MRRS. 
    m.  Vaccine administration and COVID-19 
        (1) The COVID-19 pandemic is not a contraindication for 
administration of the influenza vaccination and every effort should be made 
to deliver the vaccine as quickly as possible to eligible Service members. 
        (2) If a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine becomes available during the seasonal 
influenza vaccination period, commands will follow instructions from BUMED, 
supporting MTFs, and NMRTC/Us. Expect promulgation of further guidance via 
NAVADMIN if a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine is approved and purchased by DoD. 
 
3.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
