UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 261636Z MAY 20 MID110000739290U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 152/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FY-21 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS AND MODIFICATION TO FY-19 NUCLEAR LIMITED DUTY OFFICER 
IN- SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD PROCESS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
Fiscal Year (FY) 2021 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) Commissioning Program.

2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all paygrades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).

3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-21 STA-21 Program is 1 
July 2020.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the deadline 
date.  It is recommended that applications be mailed prior to the deadline as 
early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for submission of 
missing or illegible documents.  Deadline for submission of additional 
documentation to an applicant package is 1 August 2020.  No additional 
documents can be added after this date.  The selection board is scheduled to 
convene in September 2020 and the selectees will be announced via NAVADMIN.

4.  The following target options and core are open for application for the 
FY-21 Selection Board:  Surface Warfare (SWO), Surface Warfare Engineering 
(SWO/ED), Nuclear (Surface/Sub), Special Warfare, Explosive Ordnance 
Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, Pilot, Civil Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps 
and Information Professional.

5.  The following target options have zero select opportunity for the FY-21 
Selection Board:  Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical 
Corps, Supply Corps, Surface Warfare Officer/Information Professional 
(SWO/IP), Oceanography (OCEANO) and SWO/OCEANO.

6.  The Nuclear (Surface/Sub) target option is now open to Sailors who are 
serving in the Fleet and hold an active Nuclear Navy enlisted classification 
(NEC)(N1XX/N2XX).  All applicants must be able to begin their first day of 
class in the first semester of their course work prior to commencing their 
eighth year of service.
See the Nuclear Program Authorization (PA 150A) dated May 2019 for more 
specific information and all other requirements to apply for the program.  
Additionally, applicants holding a Nuclear NEC must receive conditional 
release, in line with reference (b), if applying for options outside the 
Nuclear community, from the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D).

7.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the FY-20 STA-21 
selection process and board.  This information is provided to preclude common 
errors:
    a.  Of the 323 applications received for FY-20, only 305 were board 
eligible.  A total of 55 were selected to participate in the
FY-20 STA-21 Program.
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying 
Scholastic Aptitude Test/American College Test (SAT/ACT) test scores, missing 
commanding officer (CO) endorsement/recommendation, recent non-judicial 
punishment, missing physical fitness assessment
(PFA) cycles and missing or illegible submission of documents and not meeting 
program age or PFA requirements.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.  
Officer interview boards shall consist of three officers, the applicant CO 
may not be a board member and should not submit an interview appraisal sheet.  
The personal interview of the CO should be conducted only after the 
application is complete and the officer interview board has submitted their 
appraisals.  The full picture of an applicant academic and officer potential 
can only be determined by reviewing the SAT/ACT scores, high school/college 
transcripts and a completed application package.
    d.  The CO endorsement is extremely important, especially the ranking of 
the individual among his/her peers.  The endorsement should contain specifics 
about the individual academic potential, commitment, leadership, service 
above self and potential as a naval officer.  CO comments should specify the 
primary option to which the individual is applying and address how the 
individual meets qualifications for that option.  For junior Sailors with 
only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in his or her 
endorsement.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board shall be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  It is recommended that officers of the applicant 
designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in the 
interview/nomination review board to assess the applicant for their 
community.  Officer appraisals provide important insight on the applicant.  
The appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
leadership and academic potential of the applicant.  Appraisal forms should 
be typed in 10 or 12-point font.
    f.  The applicant personal statement should address why the Sailor wants 
to become an officer, how the Sailors selection would improve the Navy and 
why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must also address 
any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  Junior 
Sailors should provide information on high school experiences as high school 
transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in sports, 
clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should address 
any anomalies in the package (e.g., poor high school grades, college grades, 
service school grades or poor evaluation performance).  The explanation 
should include details of the situation, how the applicant has overcome these 
issues and why the applicant will be successful in the future.
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant.
Applicants must review their packages in their entirety before submitting.  
Check for misspelled words and improper grammar.
Ensure all transcripts (high school and all colleges) are enclosed.
Within the last year, applicants must have passed the PFA, to include body 
composition assessment and the physical readiness test with performance in 
the good category.  Due the immediate suspension of the PFA for Cycle-1 2020, 
minimizing the risk from coronavirus disease, points will be awarded from the 
most recent observed score from the latest full test taken within a year of 
application (i.e., spring and fall of 2019).  A grade of satisfactory or 
failure of the above required physical readiness test will make the applicant 
ineligible.
    h.  Qualifying SAT/ACT scores are required.  Include any additional 
recommendations, qualifications or other accomplishments as a part of the 
package.  SAT/ACT can be from tests taken between 1 July 2017 and 1 July 2020 
(3 years).  Due to recent events, applications will be accepted pending 
receipt of SAT/ACT test scores.
    i.  It is recommended that the command retain a copy of the entire 
application package.  The command copy should not be given to the applicant.

8.  Mail completed applications to: 

    Commander
    Naval Service Training Command (N92/STA 21)
    250 Dallas Street Ste A
    Pensacola FL 32508-5268

9.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements, and selection procedures, refer to reference (a), contact your 
command career counselor or visit the STA-21 website at
http://www.sta-21.navy.mil for the most up-to-date information.

10.  Point of contact is Naval Service Training Command, STA-21 Program 
Officer, at (850) 452-9433/9563 DSN 459 or via e-mail at 
pnsc_sta21(at)navy.mil.  Point of contact for the Nuclear target option 
policy change is the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager, OPNAV N133D at 
(703) 604-5491/DSN 664 or via e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

