CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 271604Z MAR 24 MID120000985728U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 061/24

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/FY25 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17//
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/02MAY19//
REF/D/DOC/COMNAVCRUITCOM/20JUL22//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.  
REF C IS PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 150A, SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 NUCLEAR OPTION 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAM.  
REF D IS COMNAVCRUITCOMINST 1130.8M, NAVY RECRUITING MANUAL.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) Commissioning Program.  
Applicants stationed outside the United States at any time between 1 February 
2023 and 30 June 2024 or those who were deployed at any time between 1 
February 2023 and 30 June 2024 may apply without a valid Scholastic Aptitude 
Test (SAT) or American College Test (ACT), if they meet the requirements 
detailed in paragraph 8h of this NAVADMIN.  The SAT or ACT application 
requirement is also waived for all STA-21 Nuclear option (STA-21(N)) 
applicants.  Supplemental information for applicant submission is provided in 
paragraphs 8g and 8h of this NAVADMIN.

2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all pay grades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).

3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY25 STA-21 Program is 1 
July 2024.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the deadline 
date.  Applications should be submitted prior to the deadline as early 
submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for submission of missing or 
illegible documents.  The additional documentation submitted must be 
postmarked on or before 24 July 2024.  No additional documents may be 
submitted after this date.  The selection board is scheduled to convene in 
August 2024 and the selectees will be announced via NAVADMIN message.

4.  The core program and the following target options are open for 
application for the FY25 Selection Board:  Surface Warfare Officer (SWO), SWO 
Engineering Duty Option (ED), Nuclear (Surface and Sub), Special Warfare, 
Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, Aviator, Civil Engineering 
Corps, Nurse Corps, and Information Professional.

5.  The following target options have zero select opportunities for
FY25:  Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical Corps, 
Supply Corps, SWO Information Professional (IP), Oceanography Officer 
(OCEANO), and SWO (OCEANO).

6.  The Nuclear (Surface and Submarine) target option is now open to Sailors 
who are serving in the Fleet and hold an active nuclear Navy Enlisted 
Classification (NEC) (N1XO, N1XS, N2XO, N2XS) and to those Sailors who are in 
the nuclear training pipeline with the N91T NEC.
Applicants holding a nuclear NEC must receive a conditional release from the 
Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D), in line with reference (b), 
if applying for an option outside the nuclear community.  All applicants for 
STA-21(N) must be able to begin their first day of class in the first 
semester of their coursework prior to reaching 8 years of service.  See 
paragraph 9 of this NAVADMIN for additional requirements for non-nuclear 
trained Sailors applying for the Nuclear (Surface and Submarine) target 
options.  Reference (c) provides specific information and all other 
requirements to apply for the STA-21(N) program.

7.  Additional information applicable to FY25 STA-21 applications is as 
follows:
    a.  If a Physical Fitness Assessment (PFA) was not performed within the 
last year, Commanding Officers (CO) will provide an affirmative statement in 
their endorsement certifying the applicant is within height and weight 
requirements as required by paragraph 7 of this NAVADMIN.
    b.  See paragraph 8h of this NAVADMIN for standardized test scores 
requirements.  Candidates are advised to verify school admission 
requirements, as the STA-21(N) SAT or ACT waiver does not supersede 
university admission requirements.
    c.  The Joint Service Transcript (JST), in line with reference (a), 
enclosure (1), chapter 8, paragraph 6b(9), is not required to be submitted 
for this application.  A future revision of reference
(a) will remove this requirement.
    d.  The applicant's photograph, in line with reference (a), is no longer 
required for this application.  A future revision of reference (a) will 
remove this requirement.

8.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the
FY24 STA-21 selection process and board.  This information is provided to 
preclude common errors:
    a.  Of the 462 applications received for FY24, 436 were board eligible.  
A total of 79 were selected to participate in the FY24
STA-21 Program.
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying SAT or 
ACT scores, missing CO endorsement or recommendations, recent Non-Judicial 
Punishment, missing PFA cycles, missing or illegible submission of documents, 
and not meeting program age or PFA requirements.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.  
Officer interview boards will consist of three officers.  The applicant's CO 
may not be a board member and should not submit an interview appraisal sheet.  
The CO's personal interview should be conducted only after the application is 
complete and the officer interview board has submitted their appraisals.  The 
full picture of an applicant's academic and officer potential can only be 
determined by reviewing the SAT or ACT scores (if required), high school or 
college transcripts, and a completed application package.
    d.  The CO's endorsement is extremely important, especially the ranking 
of the individual among their peers.  The endorsement should contain 
specifics about the individual's academic potential, commitment, leadership, 
service above self, and potential as a naval officer.  CO comments should 
specify the primary option to which the individual is applying and address 
how the individual meets the qualifications for that option.  For junior 
Sailors with only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in 
their endorsement.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board will be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  It is recommended officers of the applicant's 
designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in the interview 
and nomination review board to assess the applicant for their community.  
Officer appraisals provide important insight into the applicant.  The 
appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
applicant's leadership and academic potential.  Appraisal forms should be 
typed in 10 or 12-point font.
    f.  The applicant's personal statement should address why the Sailor 
wants to become an officer, how the Sailor's selection would improve the 
Navy, and why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must 
also address any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  
Junior Sailors should provide information on high school experiences as high 
school transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in 
sports, clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should 
address any anomalies in the package (e.g., poor high school grades, college 
grades, service school grades, or poor performance evaluation).  The 
explanation should include details of the situation, how the applicant has 
overcome these issues, and why the applicant will be successful in the 
future.
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant.
Applicants must review their packages in their entirety before submitting 
them.  Check for misspelled words and improper grammar.
Ensure all high school and college transcripts are enclosed.
Applicants must submit results from the last PFA completed including their 
overall score.  Applicants who have not taken the PFA within the past year 
and meet the exception criteria must have a CO's endorsement including a 
statement verifying the applicant is currently within height and weight 
standards.
    h.  Qualifying SAT or ACT scores are required for all non- nuclear 
officer candidates except as noted in paragraph 1 of this NAVADMIN.  
Qualifying SAT or ACT scores are not required for all nuclear officer 
candidates.  Applications can still be submitted pending receipt of SAT or 
ACT scores or with a command statement indicating non-availability for 
overseas locations and deployed units.  SAT or ACT scores can be from exams 
taken between 1 July 2019 and 1 July 2024.  Applicants without a SAT or ACT 
score and who meet the exception criteria should ensure their high school 
cumulative grade point average (minimum 2.5 GPA) is within the last
5 years or have a minimum 2.5 cumulative college GPA on a 4.0 scale with 12 
or more semester hours.  It is recommended the command retain a copy of the 
entire application package.  The command portion of the application (such as 
command endorsement and interview appraisal sheets) should not be given to 
the applicant.

9.  The following modifications to application requirements apply only to 
FY25 STA-21(N) applicants in an effort to reduce administrative requirements 
for applicants.  These modifications will be incorporated into a future 
revision of reference (a).  All waivers will be adjudicated on a case-by-case 
basis.  All waivers are required to be clearly identified and formally 
endorsed by the Sailor's CO as part of the Sailor's STA-21(N) application.
    a.  JST transcripts are not required for STA-21(N) applicants.
    b.  Applicants are required to apply to 3 STA-21(N) program approved 
universities.
    c.  The following universities have zero select opportunities for FY25:  
Columbia University and Southern University and A&M College.
    d.  Interviews (command and nominative boards) are not required for STA-
21(N) applicants.  STA-21(N) applicants are not required to submit officer 
interview sheets.
    e.  Non-nuclear trained Sailors are welcome to apply to STA- 21(N).  Non-
nuclear trained Sailors must be released by their community manager prior to 
submitting an application package.  Non- nuclear trained Sailors application 
packages are required to be screened by the Nuclear Accessions Director of 
Commander Navy Recruiting Command (CNRC).  If applicants have any questions 
about this process contact OPNAV N133 at bullnuke@navy.mil.  Non-nuclear 
trained Sailors are required to meet the requirements of nuclear field duty 
as specified in Chapter 5 of reference (d).  Those requirements not met for 
nuclear field duty require a waiver with CNRC concurrence.  These 
requirements include, but are not limited to, Armed Services Vocational 
Aptitude Battery, foreign citizenship, and security clearance.
    f.  CO Letter of Recommendation.  A CO's letter of recommendation must be 
included in an applicant's package.  CO's letters of recommendation are 
encouraged to endorse a Sailor based upon their mental aptitude, leadership, 
and ability to manage adversity.  CO's are encouraged to provide supplemental 
context into their ranking methodology and ranking philosophy.  Commands with 
"one of one" Sailors are reviewed with the same regard as commands with 
multiple Sailors applying.  CO's are recommended to rank their
STA-21(N) applicants in a separate group than the applicants for non-nuclear 
STA-21 applicants within their command.
    g.  Applicants will submit three personal statements in response to the 
following three questions.  Each statement must not exceed
300 words.
        (1) What actions have you taken to prepare for the STA-21(N) program, 
and how do these actions set you apart from other applicants (Provide 
specific endeavors/activities that you assess make you competitive.)
        (2) How do you assess your readiness to academically manage a 
technically rigorous and compressed college level course load (Highlight 
academic success, but also explain any previous academic shortfalls and 
evidence that you've overcome them).
        (3) STA-21(N) is an education and commissioning opportunity that will 
challenge you morally, mentally, and physically.  How do you assess your 
resiliency in successfully navigating the adversity and mental stresses 
expected in this program?  (Explain your Warrior Ethos and provide any 
personal challenges or shortcomings that have made you more resilient?)

10.  The following lessons learned are provided to STA-21(N) applicants based 
FY24 STA-21(N) selection process and board.  This information is provided to 
ensure applicants highlight their accomplishments in a competitive package:
    a.  The most competitive applicants have strong academic performance in 
high school, college, or the nuclear training pipeline.  If an applicant does 
not have a history of strong academic performance, they should provide 
evidence of improved technical rigor and academic readiness through some 
other means, i.e., SAT, ACT, or additional college level courses in technical 
subjects (calculus, physics, etc).
    b.  Sailors are encouraged to address forthright reasons of poor academic 
performance or disenrollment from an academic institution.
This is best accomplished with an explanation of lessons learned or actions 
taken since the event to address the weaknesses.
    c.  Letters of recommendation are encouraged and should provide further 
evidence of a Sailor's ability to complete a rigorous technical degree or 
efforts a Sailor has taken to strengthen their application.

11.  The preferred method of delivery for applications is through mail.  If 
mail delivery is not possible, contact the Naval Service Training Command 
STA-21 Program Office (N92 STA-21) at grlk_sta21@us.navy.mil for alternative 
delivery methods.  Mail completed applications to:
        Naval Service Training Command
        ATTN:  N92 STA-21
        320A Dewey Ave Building 3, Room 106
        Great Lakes, IL 60088-2845

12.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements, and selection procedures, refer to reference (a), contact your 
Command Career Counselor, or visit the
STA-21 website at:
https://www.netc.navy.mil/Commands/Naval-Service-Training-Command/STA-21/ for 
the most up-to-date information.

13.  [Points of contact for STA-21 is Naval Service Training Command, N92 
STA-21, and can be reached at (847) 688-5454 ext 242/DSN 792 or via e-mail at 
grlk_sta21@us.navy.mil.]  (The point of contact for the STA-21(N) Program 
Office is the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager, OPNAV N133D, and can be 
reached at (703) 604- 5491/DSN 664 or via e-mail at bullnuke@us.navy.mil.)

14.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

