UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 152311Z NOV 21 MID600051180241U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 257/21
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGIC/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV //

SUBJ/FY 22-23 SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH INDUSTRY ANNOUNCEMENT

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/15MAY19//
NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1320.1A, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH INDUSTRY
PROGRAM.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Fiscal Year (FY) 2022-2023 Secretary of
the Navy Tours with Industry (SNTWI) Program, as directed in reference (a).
This program is a unique and non- traditional opportunity for exceptional
active duty and full-time support Sailors (E-6 to O-6) to work with
partnering corporations followed by an immediate Navy Return on Investment
(ROI) tour to leverage the knowledge and skills obtained from the partnering
corporations.  SNTWI fellows are included and immersed in industry to learn
and observe corporate processes and best practices.  The purpose of the
SNTWI Program is to bring these innovative ideas, processes and proven best
practices immediately back to the Navy.
Immediate follow on ROI tours are generally required but may be deferred at
the Commander, Navy Personnel Command (CNPC) level in special cases.  Past
SNTWI fellows were assigned to VMware, Qualcomm, Apple, Boeing, Tesla,
Huntington Ingalls Industries, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, GE Digital,
Amazon, FedEx, Northrup Grumman, Space X, LinkedIn and USAA.

2.  Application packages must be routed through the detailer of the
applicant and the respective community distribution division will select
candidates.  Eligibility will be based solely on individual community needs,
demands and desired learning objectives as well as the ability of an
applicant to complete an immediate follow on ROI tour.  The SNTWI
application package will consist of Secretary of the Navy Tours with
Industry Program Application  (NAVPERS Form 1330/4), military biography with
picture, resume, learning objectives and identified immediate follow on ROI
tour approved by community leadership.  An example of an SNTWI package can
be found at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Talent-
Management/SNTWI/.

3.  Eligibility.  Applicants must be high performing and within physical
standards of readiness.  Applicants must be within three months of their
projected rotation date by July 2022 to be eligible for participation.
*Off-cycle* reporting to a company will be considered based on community
needs or operational requirements.
Participation in the SNTWI Program and completion of an immediate follow on
ROI tour should not negatively impact the career progression of the
applicant.  Applicants not positively endorsed by their community will not
be considered for this program.

4.  Service Obligation.  Tours are normally 10-12 months in length,
depending on community and corporate requirements.  Selectees incur a
service obligation for three times the number of months in the SNTWI Program
(i.e. 30-36 months) to complete an immediate follow on ROI tour.

5.  In addition to the eligibility requirements, additional restrictions
apply.
    a.  Selected Reservists are not eligible for this program.
    b.  Applicants who are within three years of separating are not eligible
for this program.
    c.  Applicants who are within three years of statutory retirement and/or
have requested retirement are not eligible for this program.
    d.  Enlisted applicants who are not approved for reenlistment or have no
intention of reenlisting and are within one year of reenlistment by July
2022 are not eligible for this program.

6.  Community Management.  All communities must submit the names of their
selectees to the director of SNTWI no later than 31 December 2021.  Names of
selectees submitted after 31 December 2021, will be considered on a
case-by-case basis (i.e. awaiting promotion selection results).  Community
leaders will identify immediate follow on ROI tours to best leverage
knowledge and skills obtained during the SNTWI with desired learning
objectives and outcomes identified by the community.  Communities can submit
alternate names for unfilled quotas.  Selectees will be matched with a
company by 29 April 2022.  Communities are responsible for notifying
selectees of acceptance status.

7.  Notes
    a.  All Designators.  Contact your detailer for more information.
Quotas may not be filled due to manning levels.
Executing orders, slating to a billet, serving in a hard fill billet or one
with significant training required could disqualify a candidate for
consideration and eligibility.  Applicants are required to contact their
detailer to discuss milestones and performance requirements to be considered
for eligibility.
    b.  E-6 to E-9.  Contact your detailer for more information.
Quotas may not be filled due to manning levels.  Executing orders, slating
to a billet, serving in a hard fill billet or one with significant training
required could disqualify a candidate for consideration and eligibility.

8.  Points of contact
    a.  For community-specific eligibility and application questions, contact 
your detailer.
    b.  For SNTWI Program questions not pertaining to application and 
eligibility, contact sntwi_support.fct(at)navy.mil.

9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
