UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 101341Z FEB 22 MID600051507144U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC 
CMC WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 032/22 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//JAN// 
 
SUBJ/2022 ACTIVE DUTY FUND DRIVE IN SUPPORT OF THE NAVY-MARINE CORPS RELIEF 
SOCIETY// 
 
REF/A/DOC/SECNAVINST 5340.7A/01MAY2018// 
REF/B/DOC/DOD WASHINGTON DC/17NOV2011// 
REF/C/DOC/FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES/01JAN2011// 
 
NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 5340.7A, ACTIVE DUTY FUND DRIVE IN SUPPORT OF 
NAVY-MARINE CORPS RELIEF SOCIETY. REF B IS DOD 5500.07-R, JOINT ETHICS 
REGULATION. REF C IS STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE 
EXECUTIVE BRANCH, FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES (5 C.F.R. 2635.808).// 
 
RMKS/1. Per reference (a), all U.S. Navy commands and activities with 
Navy and Marine Corps personnel will conduct an Active Duty Fund Drive (ADFD) 
in support of Navy-Marine Corps Relief Society (NMCRS) from 1 March to 
30 April 2021. This "By Our Own, For Our Own" opportunity allows us to 
contribute much needed funds for the direct benefit and support of our 
Shipmates and fellow Marines. 
 
2.  NMCRS does not receive government funding. The Society relies on the 
support of Active Duty and retired Sailors and Marines and other benefactors 
to help those in need at home and around the globe. Your contributions 
support interest-free loans and grants for Sailors and Marines facing 
financial challenges, including those who have been displaced by natural 
disasters and those who are dealing with family emergencies. In 2021, NMCRS 
provided over $823,000 in relief to those effected by the ice storms in 
Texas, and more than $69,000 to service members in the path of Hurricane 
Ida.  The financial assistance provided by NMCRS keeps our Sailors and 
Marines focused on the mission, and provides peace of mind when an unforeseen 
financial crisis exceeds their ability to make ends meet. 
 
3.  Today, our Navy and Marine Corps families are better prepared to address 
the financial responsibility of adding a new family member, making a 
significant purchase, like a car or a home, and being prepared for 
emergencies because of the budget counseling and financial education provided 
by NMCRS volunteers. 
 
4.  For 118 years, our society has kept faith with Sailors and Marines. The 
annual fund drive is your opportunity to help your brothers and sisters 
in arms. The campaign theme, "By Our Own, For Our Own," embodies our shared 
commitment to take care of our Shipmates and fellow Marines. I am grateful 
for those who have given generously in the past, and confident that, working 
together, we can achieve even more in 2022. 
 
5.  As addressed in further detail below, during the Active Duty Fund Drive 
in support of NMCRS, Sailors and Marines are authorized to endorse, support 
and participate in fundraising events as long as commands and organizations 
uphold the Department of the Navy's policy of truly voluntary giving and 
while adhering to all current Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines 
regarding COVID-19 risk mitigation. 
    a.  Commands and organizations are reminded to review the regulations 
governing fundraising for NMCRS to properly determine which activities are 
permissible during the fund drive. Per reference (a), authorized Active Duty 
Fund Drive fundraising activities in support of NMCRS include, but are not 
limited to command-sponsored raffles, lotteries, bake sales, car washes, 
gently used baby clothing sales, or bowling tournaments. Fundraising events 
must be conducted on Department of Defense owned or leased property; 
otherwise, the event loses its "By Our Own, For Our Own" designation and 
cannot be command-endorsed. Commands and organizations are also strongly 
encouraged to communicate the benefits of NMCRS and its programs through 
achieving 100 percent meaningful contact through speeches, meetings, and 
videos. Limited appropriated fund support is permissible for kick-off events, 
award ceremonies, and other non-solicitation events to build support. 
    b.  References (a) through (c) prohibit any coercive activities counter 
to the policy of truly voluntary giving, such as setting unit-level dollar 
goals or participation goals. Any actions that do not allow, or create the 
appearance that Service Members do not have a free choice to give or not to 
give, or any actions that do not allow or create the appearance that Service 
Members do not have a free choice to publicize their gifts or keep them 
confidential are prohibited. The following fundraising activities are also 
prohibited: selling civilian clothes privileges or special liberty, raffling 
government parking spaces, sponsoring casino-like games of chance, soliciting 
civilian or contractor personnel, or soliciting outside of the federal 
workplace. 
    c.  Unit coordinators for the Active Duty Fun Drive in support of NMCRS 
should consult their JAG or ethics counselor for further guidance with regard 
to specific questions. 
 
6.  The roadmap to success requires engaged leadership and management at all 
levels and early assignment of motivated fund drive coordinators and key 
people to ensure 100 percent of our Sailors and Marines are afforded the 
opportunity to learn about the NMCRS mission and the critically important 
programs and services they provide to our Sailors, Marines and their 
families. 
 
7.  Our leaders, both Officer and Enlisted, are the best in the world, and I 
am confident that with their active support and engagement, NMCRS will remain 
positioned to continue the important work of helping our Sailors, Marines and 
their families. I encourage all who are able to consider making a 
contribution through payroll allotment, online credit card or cash to help 
our brothers and sisters in need. In 2021, the Society provided over $29 
million in interest-free loans and grants in meeting the needs of more than 
35,000 clients. We need to take full advantage of this annual opportunity to 
help our Shipmates and fellow Marines through the 2022 Active Duty fund drive 
campaign. 
 
8.  Additional information on NMCRS can be found at https://www.nmcrs.org/. 
 
9.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
