CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 140845Z NOV 24 MID120001543661U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 233/24 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/-/NOV// 
 
SUBJ/U.S. NAVAL INSTITUTE DARE INNOVATION WORKSHOP// 
 
RMKS/1. For the tenth year, the Naval Institute will host the DARE Innovation 
Workshop. This year's workshop will take place in conjunction with the Armed 
Forces Communications and Electronics Association (AFCEA) West 2025 from 
Tuesday, January 28th to Thursday, January 30th at the San Diego Convention 
Center in San Diego, California. DARE 2025 will bring together select junior 
officers, forward-thinking enlisted personnel, and influential civilian 
leaders to engage on critical issues facing the sea services. 
 
2. DARE 2025 seeks 10-15 highly engaged and thoughtful individuals who will 
offer creative solutions to pressing sea service issues. 
Target participants are active and reserve personnel O3-O4 and E5-E7, with 
various backgrounds and service specialties, and civilian counterparts from 
various industries and academia. 
 
3. Last year, DARE 2024 participants delivered solutions to service 
challenges presented by General Eric Smith, Commandant of the Marine Corps. 
This year, DARE 2025 participants will conduct a root causal analysis, 
brainstorm, and present solutions in response to two service challenges posed 
by the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, Admiral Linda Fagan. Select DARE 
2025 participants will brief the Commandant on their group's recommendations. 
 
4. This year, the Commandant has challenged participants to address the 
following topics: 
a. Retention: What are the primary factors that would lead you to leave the 
service?  
Which factors are most effectively addressed by policy changes, given 
budgetary constraints?  
Are there situations where you might feel you have no option but leaving, and 
how might leadership remove those obstacles to your staying in the service? 
How can we make your service the best choice for you and your 
family? 
b. Innovation: Innovation is more than new technology. In a time of budgetary 
constraints and an inflexible acquisition process, it is particularly 
important that we pay credence to the broader definition of innovating, 
making changes by introducing new methods, ideas, or products, particularly 
those that have been proven elsewhere. Recognizing we are different services 
with different systems, what are ways that we could bring in ideas from other 
service branches or the commercial sector, or share practices to operate more 
effectively? Specifically, how can we think about how we do work in a smarter 
or more efficient manner? What are ways we can promote interoperability 
between the services from the bottom up, at the deckplate level? What does 
leadership need to do in order to support these initiatives? 
 
5. To apply, visit https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/DARE2025. 
Applications are due 27 Nov 2024.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
