UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 281804Z SEP 21 MID200001165063U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 213/21 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/CALL FOR APPLICATIONS TO BECOME A CERTIFIED NAVY COACH// 
 
REF/A/DOC/DAFSLDP PWS/07132021/NOTAL// 
REF/B/DOC/SECNAV M-5216.5// 
 
NARR/REF A IS DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE SENIOR LEADER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT.   
REF B IS THE NAVY CORRESPONDENCE MANUAL.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for uniformed Navy personnel to 
participate in a Department of Defense Inter-Service Internal Coaching 
Training Program in line with reference (a), henceforth known as the Coaching 
Culture Facilitator Course (CCFC). 
It is a rigorous 16-week virtual program (30 November 2021 through 31 March 
2022) which will prepare participants to educate, promote and foster a 
coaching culture within their respective service.  This CCFC serves as an 
internal coaching training program offered to create internal coaches across 
the Department of Defense (DoD) to enhance the performance of every Service 
Member and increase warfighter readiness and lethality.  The CCFC provides a 
pathway to increase the number of trained coaches in each service branch. 
There are 24 Navy quotas in this pilot CCFC. 
 
2.  Description of CCFC 
    a.  The CCFC is a 16-week virtual program of instruction which provides 
80 hours of coach-specific training across a curriculum approved by the 
International Coaching Federation (ICF).  The curriculum includes 30 hours of 
coach training for a Leadership Coach Certification from Flatter, Inc., 30 
hours of additional coach training to meet the needed 60 hours required for 
application for an ICF coaching certification, 10 hours of mentor-coaching 
required for ICF certification and 10 hours of CCFC specific orientation and 
training. 
    b.  The CCFC instructional methodology is focused on providing 
experiential learning with opportunities for participants to coach other 
participants and leaders from the course.  Classes are conducted on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays for two hours and Wednesdays for one hour for the duration of 
the course.  Content includes lectures, the introduction of coaching tools 
and case studies.  Participants must attend at least 80 percent of class 
hours live.  Missed live classes can be taken asynchronously. 
 
3.  Applications must reflect a commitment to build and sustain a Navy 
coaching culture.  The selection process will focus on personal statements 
related to interest in becoming a Navy coach, how becoming a Navy coach will 
contribute to the short-term and long-term career goals of the applicant, the 
commitment on behalf of the applicant to changing the culture of the Navy 
through coaching and how the applicant has helped someone develop a plan for 
reaching a goal. 
 
4.  Military Applicant Eligibility Criteria 
    a.  Participation is open to all active and full-time support 
unrestricted line, restricted line and staff corps officers in the permanent 
grades of O-3 through O-5.  Enlisted participation is open to all active and 
full-time support Navy occupational specialty codes in the permanent grades 
of E-6 through E-9 with a minimum of three years prior to end of active 
obligated service (EAOS). 
    b.  Certified or credentialed coaches and those with an ICF Associate, 
Professional, or Master Certified Coach credential are not eligible to apply 
for the CCFC 
    c.  Certified or credentialed coaches are asked to contact us at 
MyNavyCoaching(at)navy.mil so that we may track all members with this 
valuable skillset. 
 
5.  Application requirements:  Materials will be submitted via DoD Secure 
Access File Exchange (SAFE) no later than 11 October 2021 and will consist of 
the following three documents available at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Talent-Management/Coaching/ 
    a.  SF-182 Authorization, Agreement and Certification of 
Training:  Applicants are required to submit an SF-182 signed by their 
training officer and supervisor.  Individual seat expenses will be covered by 
Navy Personnel Command.  Travel is not required and no travel expenses will 
be reimbursed. 
    b.  Letter of Intent:  Applicants are required to submit a letter of 
intent with the following information: 
        (1) Last Name, First Name, MI 
        (2) Rank 
        (3) Rate or Designator 
        (4) Command 
        (5) E-mail address 
        (6) Phone Number 
        (7) Position Title, if applicable 
        (8) Location/Address 
        (9) Supervisor Name, Title, Phone Number and e-mail 
        (10) Date of last promotion 
        (11) List and describe any prior coach training or experience to 
include relevant coaching certifications or credentials. 
        (12) Name, signature and date for both applicant and 
supervisor.  Digital signatures are acceptable. 
    c.  The letter of intent will include essay-style responses to the 
following questions: 
        (1) Why are you interested in becoming a Navy Coach? 
        (2) How would becoming a Navy Coach contribute to your short-term and 
long-term career goals? 
        (3) What is your commitment to changing the culture of the Navy 
through coaching? 
        (4) Describe a prior work experience where you have helped someone 
develop a plan for reaching a goal.  How did you help them and support their 
progress to achieve the goal? 
    (d) The letter of intent will also include affirmation of the following 
statements with signature of applicant and supervisor: 
        (1) I fully understand the requirements and time commitment of five 
hours per week for 16 weeks needed to engage in this training program. 
        (2) I agree to provide 100 hours of coaching within two years after 
completing this training. 
        (3) I agree to provide training to future Navy Coaching Program 
courses within the next two years after completing this training. 
        (4) I agree to submit a new supervisor agreement form to the MyNavy 
Coaching initiative at MyNavyCoaching(at)navy.mil if my supervisor changes 
for any reason. 
    c.  Commanding officer endorsement letter:  Refer to reference (b) for 
letter format.  Applicants will be required to submit a signed endorsement 
letter from their commanding officer. 
 
6.  Submission Instructions:  All documents (SF-182, letter of intent and 
endorsement letter from the applicants commanding officer) are required to be 
submitted via DoD SAFE at https://safe.apps.mil no later than 11 October 
2021.  Select *Drop-off to upload a file.  The name of the recipient should 
be *MyNavy Coaching*.  The e-mail address is MyNavyCoaching(at)navy.mil.  The 
file name for the applicant package should be as follows:  Last Name_First 
Name_CCFC.  Ensure you check *Send me an e-mail when each recipient picks up 
the files* so you know your application has been received.  If you do not 
receive an e-mail within five business days that your application has been 
received, contact MyNavyCoaching(at)navy.mil and put *Last Name_First 
Name_CCFC Application Package* as the subject line. 
 
7.  Role of Supervisors 
    a.  Coaching is a learning and development activity and therefore is 
intended to be accomplished during normal duty hours. Supervisors are 
expected to support the on-duty participation of Service Members as much as 
possible.  Moreover, supporting Service Member participation in no way limits 
the supervisor to schedule work for the Service Member.  All coaching 
engagements must have approval from immediate supervisors to minimize 
conflicts with organizational mission priorities. 
    b.  Applicants must be volunteers and possess self-awareness, good 
listening skills, respectfulness, trustworthiness and demonstrate sensitivity 
and discretion towards the issues of others in the organization.  Applicants 
should also express encouragement and optimism in both easy and difficult 
situations and demonstrate accountability for self and others. 
    c.  The supervisor may nominate no more than one officer or enlisted 
member and no more than a total of two applicant nominations per command due 
to the limited number of seats for this pilot, a 24 person cohort. 
 
8.  Selectees will be required to sign and submit the following three  
NAVPERS 1070/613, Administrative Remarks (Page 13s): 
    a.  CCFC Virtual Training Program Agreement (NAVPERS 1070/613 
Administrative Remarks  Page 13) acknowledging the program requirements 
during work hours from 1000-1200 Eastern Standard Time (EST) on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays and from 1000-1100 EST on Wednesdays for a total of five hours of 
training per week for a total of 16 weeks (from 30 November 2021  31 March 
2022). 
    b.  Coaching Reciprocation Agreement(NAVPERS 1070-613 Administrative 
Remarks - Page 13) to acknowledge the applicant must provide 100 hours of 
coaching services to Department of the Navy employees over a period of two 
years. 
    c.  Continued Service Agreement (NAVPERS 1070-613 Administrative Remarks 
- Page 13) acknowledging the applicant will remain in employment of and serve 
in the Federal Government for a minimum of two years after completion of the 
CCFC.  The two year obligated service date will commence on the first day 
following graduation from the training program. 
 
9.  Timeline: 
    a.  24 September - 17 October 2021:  Application window open. 
    b.  18 October 2021:  Applications are due by 2359 Central 
Daylight Time. 
    c.  15 November 2021:  Selects notified via e-mail. 
    d.  16-23 November 2021:  Selected applicants submit the three required 
documents in paragraph 8 via e-mail to MyNavyCoaching(at)navy.mil. 
 
10.  Additional frequently asked questions regarding CCFC and MyNavy 
Coaching are available at:  https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Talent-Management/Coaching/FAQ/. 
11.  Points of Contact: 
    a.  CDR Patrick Callan, MyNavy Coaching Coordinator, PERS-00Z, 
(901) 874-4437/DSN 882 or via e-mail: patrick.m.callan.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
    b.  LCDR Erica Harris, MyNavy Coaching Scientific Research Advisor, PERS-
00SRA, (901) 874-4437/DSN 882 or via e-mail: 
erica.r.harris9.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
12.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
13.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
