ROUTINE 
R 311653Z MAY 22 MID200001758886U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 125/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 
 
SUBJ/FY-24 ACTIVE-DUTY LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER  
IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/101548ZJUN19// 
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/251736ZJAN18// 
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/17JAN19// 
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/041710ZJUN18// 
REF/F/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 128/19, OFF-RAMP GUIDANCE FOR ACTIVE COMPONENT SUBMARINE 
COMMUNICATIONS DESIGNATOR 6290 LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS.   
REF C IS NAVADMIN 014/18, UPDATED OFF-RAMP GUIDANCE FOR ACTIVE AND RESERVE 
COMPONENT INFORMATION WARFARE AND SUPPLY CORPS LIMITED DUTY 
OFFICERS.   
REF D IS OPNAVINST 1210.5B, LATERAL TRANSFER AND REDESIGNATION OF ACTIVE 
COMPONENT OFFICERS IN THE NAVY.   
REF E IS NAVADMIN 140/18, MODIFICATION OF THE NAVY CYBER WARRANT OFFICER 
PROGRAM.   
REF F IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF 
THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces solicitation of applications from highly 
qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 Active-Duty (AD) and Training and 
Administration of the Reserves (TAR) personnel for the Fiscal Year 2024 (FY) 
2024 Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief Warrant Officer (CWO) programs, and 
E-5 and above for the FY-24 AD Warrant Officer (WO1) program.  Where 
conflicts with reference (a) exist, this NAVADMIN takes precedence. 
 
2.  For the most current information concerning open designator codes, visit  
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career- planning/commissioning-programs, click 
the *Limited Duty Officer & Chief Warrant Officer In-Service Procurement 
Board* link and scroll down to the *Active-Duty LDO/CWO In-Service 
Procurement Board click here* link, then select Applicant Information link, 
then select current LDO and CWO designators link. 
 
3.  Eligibility.  All applicants for the LDO, CWO and WO1 programs must have 
a security clearance prior to commissioning, must be able to complete 
operational duty screening and must be worldwide assignable.  Updated policy 
guidance to reference (a): 
    a.  All time-in-service (TIS) and time-in-grade (TIG) requirements for 
the FY-24 Active-Duty LDO and CWO In-Service Procurement Board (ISPB) will be 
computed to 1 October 2023. 
    b.  TIS and TIG requirements are: 
        (1) LDO: 8-14 years TIS and 1 year TIG for E-6 and above. TIS waivers 
will be considered up to 180 days beyond 14 years for LDO applicants.  No 
further exceptions will be entertained. 
        (2) Applicants for LDO off-ramp designators (629X and 651X) may apply 
with up to 15 years of service and must understand designator specific off-
ramp requirements and procedures defined in references (b) through (d).  TIS 
waivers will not be considered or exceptions granted for off-ramp 
designators. 
        (3) Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicants may apply with up to 16 years 
of service.  TIS waivers will not be considered or exceptions granted. 
        (4) CWO3: 14 to 22 years TIS and one day TIG as an E-9 as of 
2 January 2023.  TIS waivers will be considered up to 180 days beyond 22 
years for CWO3 applicants.  No further exceptions will be entertained. 
        (5) CWO2: 14 to 20 years TIS for E-6 selected for E-7, E-7 and E-8 
(includes frocked E-9s).  TIS waivers will be considered up to 180 days 
beyond 20 years for CWO applicants.  No further exceptions will be 
entertained. 
        (6) Due to the FY-23 Enlisted Selection Board schedule for Active E-
7, First Class Petty Officers awaiting Chief Petty Officer (CPO) results to 
apply for CWO are encouraged to apply and submit their application by the 1 
October 2022 deadline with the following guidelines: 
            (a) Commands are directed to proceed with the application process 
for these applicants as outlined in this NAVADMIN. 
            (b) First Class Petty Officers awaiting CPO selection results 
must add the following statement at the top of the Commanding Officers 
endorsement: *Member is awaiting CPO results.* PERS-803 will set aside these 
applications until CPO results are announced. 
            (c) First Class Petty Officer evaluations due 15 November 2022 
will be submitted as an addendum per guidelines of this NAVADMIN.  If 
selected for CPO and the pinning date is after receiving a 15 November 2022 
periodic First Class evaluation, the close-out eval is not required to be 
submitted as an addendum. Submit the close-out evaluation as an addendum if a 
periodic First Class evaluation was not received.  Once all of the CPO 
results are announced, PERS-803 will integrate or remove those 
records/applications accordingly. 
        (7) WO1 (784X only): 6 to 14 years TIS for E-5 and above. TIS waivers 
will not be considered or exceptions granted.  Cyber Warrant Officer WO1 
(784X) applicants refer to eligibility requirements listed in reference (e). 
    c.  To support career progression models and maximize the 
return on investment for the Navy, TIS waivers must be submitted to 
ldocwoocm.fct(at)navy.mil before 15 July 2022 for adjudication. Approved 
waivers must be submitted with the application. 
    d.  Intelligence CWO (783X) applicants will be considered for selection 
into one of three Core Competency Areas (CCA): CI/HUMINT, GEOINT/Targeting or 
OPINTEL.  In order to apply, applicants must request a primary CCA and those 
holding qualifying Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) in more than one field 
may request a secondary CCA (i.e., 783X CI/HUMINT / 783X OPINTEL). 
    e.  First Class Petty Officers serving in congressionally designated 
combat zones and approved contingency operations areas that meet the 
conditions of reference (f) are also eligible for LDO if all other 
eligibility requirements are met. 
    f.  Due to ongoing rating mergers or realignments, eligible Sailors are 
encouraged to apply for the designator for which they have extensive 
documented technical expertise and leadership experience in their enlisted 
service records, regardless of current rating.  However, special attention 
should be given to the guidance in chapter 7, subparagraph 9c of reference 
(a) and discrete requirements. 
    g.  Applicants for designators outlined in reference (a) that 
have color perception requirements shall have test results 
documented as a telephone consult in Armed Forces Health 
Longitudinal Technology Application within the past 12 months, and 
provide hard copy or have test results documented on standard form- 
600 and submitted with application. 
    h.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
promotion process.  Applicants who are deemed ineligible after submitting an 
application must be declared ineligible by their current Commanding 
Officer/Officer in Charge (CO/OIC).  A sample removal of recommendation 
format is located at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning- 
programs.  Click through the following path of *Limited Duty Officer & Chief 
Warrant Officer In-Service Procurement Board* link, then *Active-Duty LDO/CWO 
In-Service Procurement Board click here* link, then select Applicant 
Information, then select LDO and CWO In- Service Procurement Board to 
download the form (See Sample Letter of Abeyance or Removal of 
Recommendation).  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicants who are deemed 
ineligible must be declared ineligible by their current CO via letter to the 
Nuclear Propulsion Program Manager (OPNAV N133). 
 
4.  Appraisal Boards.  (Not required for Nuclear Power LDO 620X) Active duty 
interview appraisal boards will be coordinated and approved by the CO/OIC and 
consist of three AD Naval Officers (LDOs or CWOs preferred).  The names of 
the approved appraisal board members must be included in the CO/OIC 
endorsement.  Every effort (including teleconference media) should be made to 
ensure the senior board member is from the LDO or CWO designator family for 
which the applicant is applying. 
    a.  LDO applicants - it is highly recommended that the senior member of 
the interview panel for applicants applying for LDO be an in-designator 
commander (CDR) or above.  If not available, a LDO CDR or above in another 
designator can serve in this capacity with at least one board member from the 
designator family.  Officers who were CDR or Captain (CAPT) LDOs that 
converted to another designator via the Without Board Action (WOBA) process 
can serve as the senior member.  In communities where there are no longer 
senior LDOs within the community, a CDR or CAPT from the parent community can 
act as the senior board member, (e.g., a Supply Corps (3100) CDR or CAPT 
for Supply (651X)) applicants. 
    b.  CWO applicants - it is highly recommended that the senior member of 
the interview panel for applicants applying for CWO be an in-designator 
CWO5.  If not available, a LCDR (LDO preferred) or above can serve in this 
capacity with at least one board member from the in-designator or designator 
family (CWO preferred). 
    c.  Minimum ranks requirements for board members are Lieutenant or CWO3. 
    d.  Only three interview appraisals may be submitted for each applicant. 
    e.  Board member preparation for applicant appraisal is an important part 
of the board process.  Review of the application, review of discrete 
requirements for the applicant designator, having well thought out questions 
on technical expertise, leadership and knowledge of the designator for which 
the candidate is applying, to include future career path if selected, are all 
great examples of board member preparation. 
    f.  The technical ability and potential blocks on the interview 
appraisal sheet must be marked for LDO and CWO candidates. 
    g.  Each appraisal shall contain the names of all three panel 
members.  Only the current version of the interviewer appraisal sheet will be 
accepted.  Interviewer appraisal sheet is located at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning- 
programs.  Click through the following path of *Limited Duty Officer & Chief 
Warrant Officer In-Service Procurement Board* link, then *Active-Duty LDO/CWO 
In-Service Procurement Board click here* link, then select Applicant 
Information, then select LDO and CWO In- Service Procurement Board to 
download the form. 
 
5.  Application Submission.  Communication to the board (application, 
addendums, etc.) should originate from the applicant via their CO.  However, 
it is acceptable for the command to submit an applicant’s package on his or 
her behalf, provided that the package has been endorsed by the CO and the 
applicant has been provided a copy of their entire package prior to 
submission. Information received that is not under the cover letter of the 
applicant (e.g., third party correspondence) and endorsed by the command, or 
not received by the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) by the established 
deadline(s) will not be presented to the board. 
    a.  All applications must include a command endorsed LDO/CWO eligibility 
checklist. 
    b.  Each applicant and CO/OIC must ensure applications/addendums are 
complete and accurate.  Incomplete applications could result in  
non-selection.  Applications must be signed by the CO/OIC of the applicant or 
the *Acting* CO/OIC.  Addendums can be signed *By direction* if the CO or OIC 
is unavailable. 
    c.  All applicants must possess a security clearance prior to 
commission.  Refer to reference (a), (chapters 2 and 7) for security 
clearance information, program overview and eligibility criteria. 
    d.  CO/OIC endorsements must contain the following statement: 
*Applicant meets all requirements outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, NAVADMIN 
XXX/22, the physical fitness standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J, and is worldwide 
assignable.*  The endorsement must clearly identify the command, it must 
identify the members of the interview panel, must be signed by the CO/OIC and 
include the CO/OICs command point of contact information.  A CO/OIC ranking 
is no longer required, or desired. 
    e.  Applicants must ensure a copy of their most recent periodic 
evaluation is included in the application or provided via addendum for board 
review and continuity if it is not already in Official Military Personnel 
File (OMPF). 
    f.  Applicants are not required to include an obligatory service 
statement to remain on active duty. 
    g.  Applicants currently serving in an Individual Augmentation Manpower 
Management, Global Support Assignment or Overseas Contingency Operations 
Support Assignment may have their application endorsed by the field 
commander.  Field commanders must obtain parent command endorsement prior to 
submission.  A sample format is located at  
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career- 
planning/commissioning-programs.  Click through the following path of 
*Limited Duty Officer & Chief Warrant Officer In-Service Procurement Board* 
link, then *Active-Duty LDO/CWO In-Service Procurement Board click here* 
link, then select Applicant Information, then select LDO and CWO In-Service 
Procurement Board to download the form (See Sample Addendum Letter). 
    h.  Applicants must submit sequentially numbered enclosures to the 
application/addendum, annotated on the bottom right corner of each page with 
the last name and full social security number of the applicant in the top 
right corner.  Addendums must include a command endorsement.  The FY-24 AD 
LDO and CWO ISPB board number is 24181. The FY-24 Active-Duty Nuclear LDO 
ISPB board number is 24182. 
    i.  Applications must be received by MNCC no later than 1 October 
2022.  Submit applications via e-mail to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  E-mails 
must be encrypted using a military e-mail account to protect personally 
identifiable information (PII). Applicants who are unable to submit 
applications as outlined above due to current operational locations may mail 
their application via USPS to the address listed below.  When mailing PII, 
individuals must use DD Form 2923 Privacy Act Data Cover Sheet and double 
wrap the package.  DD Form 2923 may be accessed by using the following 
Web address:  https://www.disa.mil/-/media/files/DISA/about/Privacy-
Office/dd2923.pdf.  The inner package must be labeled with the privacy 
warning *CUI - PRIVACY SENSITIVE Any misuse or unauthorized disclosure may 
result in both civil and criminal penalties* and use a tracking 
feature.  Correspondence mailed via USPS must use the following address: 
Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (BUPERS-074) 
 
President, FY-24 Active Duty LDO/CWO In-service 
Procurement Board FY-24181 
5720 Integrity Drive 
Millington TN 38055 
    (j)  Department of Defense Secure Access File Exchange (DoD SAFE) and 
Electronic Submission of Selection Board (ESSBD) via BUPERS Online are not 
supported or authorized means to submit 
applications or addendums. 
    k.  Mailed applications must be postmarked no later than 1 
October 2022.  Addendums to applications must be received no later 
than 15 December 2022. 
 
6.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applications must be sent to the pers- 
422b_desk.fct(at)navy.mil inbox.  Applications should be scanned and 
submitted via encrypted email.  Applicants who are unable to submit 
applications as outlined due to operational commitments must contact 
the selection board sponsor at nukeldo(at)navy.mil for alternate 
delivery methods.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicants will submit 
in addition to their application: 
    a.  Information applicants consider pertinent to their 
application not contained in their OMPF. 
    b.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) E-6 applicants must submit a copy 
of their E-7 examination profile sheet as enclosure (2) to their 
application. 
    c.  Engineering Watch Supervisor or Propulsion Plant Watch 
Supervisor qualification as documented by NEC N33Z is required to 
apply for Nuclear Power LDO (620X). 
    d.  Sailors selected for Nuclear Power LDO (620X) will require a 
separate technical interview at Naval Reactors to receive a 
commission.  Sailors who do not successfully complete a final 
technical interview will maintain their enlisted status and will not 
be commissioned.  Additionally, these Sailors are ineligible to 
submit future applications to the Nuclear Power LDO (620X) program. 
Technical interviews will be scheduled by Nuclear placement and 
Assignments (PERS-422) and selectees notified via separate 
correspondence. 
 
7.  Application/Addendum Due Dates.  All non-nuclear power 
applications must be received by MNCC no later than 1 October 2022. 
Routine addendums to applications, including evaluations and awards, 
must be received no later than 15 December 2022.  Submit 
applications via e-mail to cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  The time and 
date (Central Standard Time) received by MNCC inbox is the time and 
date used for deadline verification.  Applications and addendums 
received after the designated due dates will not be presented to the 
board.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applications must be received by 
pers-422b_desk.fct(at)navy.mil no later than 1 October 2022.  All 
Nuclear Power LDO addendums to applications, including 15 September 
2022 CPO and 15 November 2022 First Class evaluations, if not 
already included in the OMPF, must be received (or postmarked) no 
later than 15 December 2022.  The time and date (central standard 
time) received in the pers-422b_desk.fct(at)navy.mil inbox is the 
time and date used for deadline verification. 
 
8.  Board Convene Dates.  The FY-24 Active-Duty LDO and CWO ISPB and 
FY-24 Active-Duty Nuclear Power LDO ISPB will convene at dates to be 
determined in January 2023 and February 2023.  For the most current 
board dates, visit MNP at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-promotion/active- 
duty-enlisted and select *Selection Board Schedule* then *FY-24 
board schedule* when available. 
 
9.  For additional information, current application and eligibility 
checklist, visit the Administrative Boards Branch (PERS-803) website 
at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning/commissioning-  
programs.  Click through the following path of *Limited Duty Officer 
& Chief Warrant Officer In-Service Procurement Board* link, then 
*Active-Duty LDO/CWO In-Service Procurement Board click here*, then 
select Applicant Information, then select LDO and CWO In-Service 
Procurement Board.  This site also contains guidance such as how to 
monitor receipt of application or addendum, status after PERS-803 
review and how to reconcile application errors via addendum if items 
or corrections are required for completeness or eligibility. 
 
10.  Points of contact: 
    a.  For application/addendum and eligibility questions contact 
the ISP Board Sponsor at (901) 874-3170/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
npc_ldo-cwo_selbd.fct(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  For general LDO/CWO career path and policy questions contact 
the LDO/CWO Officer Community Managers at (901) 874-2464/DSN 882, or 
via email at ldocwoocm.fct(at)navy.mil. 
    c.  For nuclear-trained Sailor application and eligibility 
questions, contact the LDO/CWO Nuclear Officer Detailer, at (901) 
874-3938/DSN 882, or via e-mail at nukeldo(at)navy.mil. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 
September 2023, whichever comes first. 
 
12.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

