CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 282038Z MAR 24 MID120000989922U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 066/24

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/34TH ANNUAL SECRETARY OF DEFENSE COMMUNITY DRUG AWARENESS AWARD 
SOLICITATION FOR NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/MEMO/SECDEF/12DEC23//

AMPN/REF A IS OUSD MEMO ANNOUNCING THE 2024 RED RIBBON WEEK ACTIVITIES AND 
SOLICITING NOMINATIONS FOR THE ANNUAL DRUG DEMAND REDUCTIONS AWARD.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Department of Defense (DoD) Drug Demand 
Reduction Program (DDRP) solicitation for nominations for the Secretary of 
Defense Community Drug Awareness Award.  The Secretary of Defense Community 
Drug Awareness Award was established by the DoD in 1990 in an effort to 
promote its support of outreach and prevention programs within the DoD 
community to encourage participation in the national Red Ribbon drug 
prevention campaign.
In the past, the military Services have exhibited enthusiasm and energy in 
designing and implementing their programs for the benefit of our military 
members and their families.  This award is in recognition of military bases, 
activities, or unit programs and are not awarded to specific individuals.

2.  There are three types of drug demand reduction programs within the DoD 
that are eligible for this award:
    a.  Programs conducted wholly or partially with DoD assets, directed at 
our military personnel and their dependents, and DoD civilian employees.
    b.  Programs supported strictly by voluntary efforts of DoD personnel 
targeted to appropriate populations, with or without contributions by other 
non-DoD sources.
    c.  Programs conducted by the National Guard of the various states under 
the terms of the Governors State Plans (Section 112 programs).

3.  To allow for the development of imaginative DDRPs, the Secretary of 
Defense Community Drug Awareness Award criteria are general in definition.  
Substantive criteria on which the nominations will be judged will include the 
following:
    a.  Strict adherence to the target populations of military personnel, 
their dependents, and DoD civilian employees.
    b.  Maximizing the use of DoD demand reduction assets to effectively 
reach the targeted audience (i.e. are the funds used to reach the audience 
effectively, or could resources have been spent better).
    c.  Documented participation in Red Ribbon Week observances.
Any nominations not documenting Red Ribbon Week participation will be 
disqualified.
    d.  Program impact determined by some observable and measurable events 
such as number of personnel impacted by the programs.
    e.  Programmatic achievements limited to the parameters of Fiscal Year 
2024 (FY24) (1 October 2023 - 30 September 2024).
Activities and achievements outside of these dates will not be considered.

4.  Nominations for the Secretary of Defense Community Drug Awareness Award 
must cover the period of FY24.  All nominations must be submitted via the 
installation commander.  A narrative describing the activities and top three 
outreach efforts of each nominee must not exceed four typed pages in at least 
12-point font.  It must contain the following information:
    a.  Name of the program and the military Service.
    b.  Location of the program (name of base or installation, ship or 
facility, address, and point of contact information).
    c.  Background of the program to include mission, date of inception, 
duration, and growth of the program, if applicable.
    d.  Description of targeted audience(s) to include level of risk for drug 
abuse.
    e.  Description of how drug demand reduction funds were used.
    f.  Note types of DoD Red Ribbon Week activities in which the 
organization participated.
    g.  Description of the impact of the program on the community in
FY24 to include:
        (1) A description of the overall methodology of the program.
        (2) Activities and achievements.
        (3) Specific data that demonstrate the effectiveness of the program 
on the population.
    h.  Recommendation and verification by proper authorities.
    i.  Pictures, flyers, digital anti-drug campaign video, and text based 
posts, or images must be included and will not count towards the four-page 
limit.

5.  Common errors that have previously resulted in a low score or 
disqualification are as follows:
    a.  No visible objective measures of effectiveness of the program (i.e., 
no qualitative or quantitative data demonstrating how the program impacted 
the community).
    b.  Programmatic achievements listed did not occur in the previous FY.
    c.  Red Ribbon Week activities are not cited.
    d.  Exceeding four pages in length, with grammatical and spelling errors 
throughout the document.
    e.  Not following the alphanumeric format.
    f.  Missing recommendation and verification by proper authorities.

6.  Nominations will be submitted electronically and received no later than 7 
June 2024, to Mill_n17_defy@us.navy.mil.  Nominations received after 7 June 
2024, will not be considered.

7.  The 2024 Community Drug Awareness Award winners will be presented during 
the DoD Annual Red Ribbon Week Observance Ceremony tentatively scheduled for 
Thursday, 17 October 2024, in the Pentagon Hall of Heroes.

8.  Point of contacts are Mr. Allen Moore, Program Analyst, Drug Education 
for Youth (OPNAV N173B), at (901) 874-3338/DSN 882, 
allen.l.moore10.civ@us.navy.mil, or Mr. Oshiel Butler, (OPNAV N173B) at 
(901)874-6871, Oshiel.t.butler.civ@us.navy.mil.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

