CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 101257Z FEB 23 MID200080724098U 
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 032/23 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR// 
 
SUBJ/2022 AMERICAN LEGION SPIRIT OF SERVICE AWARD// 
 
POC/Kristine Garland/NAVCO/LOC: MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:(901) 874-5882/ 
EMAIL:  kristine.a.garland.civ@us.navy.mil 
 
RMKS/1.  The American Legion will present its Spirit of Service Award for 
calendar year 2022 to an enlisted member (E-5 or junior) from each branch of 
the Armed Forces.  The award, given annually since 2000, will be presented by 
the National Commander on stage at the American Legion National Convention in 
Charlotte, NC, August 25-31, 2023. 
 
2.  Eligibility.  The main criterion of the award is the level of volunteer 
community service that a Sailor performs off-duty in the local community. 
Command-sponsored volunteer activities, either on-duty or off, will not be 
counted. The period of service is 1 January 2022 - 31 December 2022, and 
nominees must be E-5 or junior during the period of service.  Nominees may be 
active or reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals.  Previous 
winners of this award are not eligible.  If chosen as the recipient, the 
awardee must attend the American Legion National Convention. 
 
3.  Travel and lodging.  Within CONUS, the American Legion will provide 
travel and lodging expenses for the individual winner. The winner is 
responsible for travel expenses for family members or guests. 
 
4.  Nominations.  Nomination packages must contain the Commanding Officer's 
(CO) nomination, a description of the volunteer service performed, a 
biography of the Sailor, and a high-resolution JPEG head and shoulder 
photograph taken by their respective command in service dress uniform. Also 
required is a signed consent for release of information. The American Legion 
now also requires a summary of schools attended and awards received. 
    a.  Commanding Officer nomination.  COs may nominate one Sailor from 
their command.  Nominations must be on command letterhead and indicate the 
CO's confidence in the Sailor's professionalism and as a representative of 
the Navy, the validity of the volunteer efforts and a commitment to 
facilitate their nominee's attendance at the national convention, if 
selected.  Endorsements are not required. 
    b.  Volunteer efforts.  Description of volunteer efforts must include 
quantitative data such as hours, days, or months spent on off-duty volunteer 
community service (e.g., provided 38 hours at the community center as a 
coach).  Command sponsored volunteer activities, either on duty or off, will 
not be counted. This description should be provided in a bullet format. 
    c.  Nominee photo.  An 8x10, high-resolution JPEG head and shoulder 
    photograph of the Sailor is required. If chosen as the award recipient, 
the nominee's photo will be used in printed and online material used to 
publicize and document the award ceremony.  The photo should be similar to 
those commonly associated with Navy leader biographies and official portrait 
photos. 
    d.  Nominee biography.  If chosen as the award recipient, the biography 
will be used in the Legion's magazine and convention program.  The biography 
should include hometown information as well as professional highlights and 
qualifications. 
    e.  New for this year, and not reflected in the sample packet below, is 
the American Legion's requirement for a summary of schools attended and 
awards received. 
    f.  Signed consent for release of information.  A written and signed 
statement of consent by the Sailor, authorizing release of information 
contained in the nomination, is required per the Privacy Act of 1974.  The 
following statement is a sample of written consent: 
"I, (rate/rank/full name), do hereby authorize the release of all information 
enclosed in this nomination package to those persons involved in the 
selection process." 
    g.  All parts of the package should be contained in one PDF. 
    h.  For a sample package of a previous winner, go to 
https://www.outreach.navy.mil/Outreach/ExecutiveOutreach/  
 
5.  Nomination submission.  Nominations must be received by 20 April 2023. 
Nominations must be submitted electronically to kristine.a.garland.civ 
@us.navy.mil. 
 
6.  Selection process.  The Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO) will 
consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board, and recommend the top 
candidates to the American Legion, which will make the selection. 
 
7.  Released by RDML Ryan Perry, Chief of Information.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
