UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 151851Z DEC 20 MID200000438914U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 325/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/DEC//

SUBJ/CNO MESSAGE TO THE FLEET - COVID VACCINE//

RMKS/1.  The nation and the Department of Defense are beginning to administer 
vaccines for the SARS-CoV-2 virus.  These vaccines, which are currently 
voluntary, are a proven effective measure to better protect you, our Navy and 
our nation from this insidious threat.

2.  I ask that every member of our Navy team strongly consider receiving the 
vaccine not only for yourself, but for your shipmates, your family, and your 
fellow citizens.  By maximizing vaccination among our force and maintaining 
our mitigation measures of physical distancing, mask wearing, and hand 
washing, we will begin the return to normal.  I will receive the vaccine 
shortly after it is made available to senior DoD leadership.

3.  Initially, there will be a finite supply of COVID-19 vaccines, which will 
first be administered to DoD and civilian health care professionals and 
emergency responders  those most at risk of exposure. Vaccinating this 
population will take time, likely into January.  We will make the vaccine 
available more broadly through a tiered plan as production ramps up, 
prioritizing those executing our most critical missions.  I ask for your 
patience until the vaccine is available for you, and your continued 
compliance with those health measures we currently have in place.

4.  If you have questions about the vaccine, please ask your medical 
provider.  Your health remains our number one priority and Navy leadership, 
all of us, remain committed to being transparent about the vaccine delivery 
and dissemination plan.

5.  I continue to be extremely proud of our collective resilience and grit 
during this challenging time.  But we must REMAIN vigilant, even after 
vaccinations occur.

6.  Safe and healthy is the goal for 2021!  Together, we will make this 
happen.  Never more proud to be your CNO.

7.  Released by Admiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


