CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 061458Z MAR 25 MID120001769454U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 045/25
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N4//

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/MAR//

SUBJ/ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS - CALL FOR CY 2024 NOMINATIONS//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/17JAN2023//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 5305.8E, ADMIRAL STAN ARTHUR AWARDS FOR LOGISTICS AND 
SUSTAINMENT EXCELLENCE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces nominations for the annual Admiral Stan 
Arthur Awards. Per reference (a), submit all nominations, not to exceed two 
pages, using the Admiral Stan Arthur Awards for Logistics and Sustainment 
Excellence Nomination form, OPNAV 5305/8 (Rev Jan 2023), which is available 
at (copy and paste into browser, search Form Number 5305/8, and download as 
(.pdf)) https://forms.documentservices.dla.mil/order/.
Award categories are as follows:
    a.  Military Officer Logistics and Sustainment Professional of the Year.
    b.  Military Enlisted Logistics and Sustainment Professional of the Year.
    c.  Senior Civilian Logistics and Sustainment Professional of the Year 
(GS-13 to GS-15).
    d.  Junior Civilian Logistics and Sustainment Professional of the Year 
(GS-12 and below).
    e.  Logistics and Sustainment Team(s) of the Year.

2.  The Admiral Stan Arthur Award will recognize Navy military and civilian 
individuals, and team(s) whose contributions during Calendar Year 2024 have:
    a.  Advanced logistics and sustainment technology, products, services, 
and processes and demonstrably enhanced the combat capability of U.S. Navy 
operating forces.
    b.  Resolved major Navy logistics and sustainment issues that 
substantially benefited the Navy, with issue categories including but not 
limited to those involving - requirements and acquisition, modernization, 
operational support, tools and professionalism, readiness, and ownership cost 
reduction.
    c.  Featured innovative planning and execution that merits adoption for 
standard usage due to its quantifiable success and benefit.
    d.  Positively impacted joint logistics and sustainment operations.

3.  Nominees may be involved in any or all phases of Navy acquisition, 
operational logistics, and Joint Services logistics, from early life-cycle 
planning to in-service logistics and sustainment support. Nominees may come 
from a variety of communities, to include, but not limited to: civil 
engineering, supply, medical, fuel, ordnance and maintenance communities.  
Contractors may be included on team award submissions but are not eligible to 
receive monetary awards.
    a.  When completing OPNAV 5305/8, commands will separately address each 
criteria category listed above and specifically address achievements within 
those categories.
    b.  For any additional types of logistics or sustainment achievements, 
commands must identify additional categories of achievements and 
corresponding benefits.

4.  Individuals and team(s) selected to receive the Admiral Stan Arthur Award 
for Calendar Year 2024 will be announced via Naval message.

5.  Award selectees will receive the following:
    a.  Plaque and certificate for individual and team categories.
    b.  $7,500 for Military Officer Professional of the Year.
    c.  $7,500 for Military Enlisted Professional of the Year.
    d.  $7,500 for Senior Civilian Professional of the Year.
    e.  $7,500 for Junior Civilian Professional of the Year.
    f.  $10,000 for the Logistics and Sustainment Team of the Year to share 
among its military and civilian members.

6.  Commands will submit nominations via Enterprise Task Management Software 
Solution (ETMS2) tasker, or e-mail to the points of contact listed in 
paragraph 7 if ETMS2 is unavailable, through Echelon II Command or Joint 
Command equivalent to Director, Logistics Division (OPNAV N4L) no later than 
Thursday, 15 May 2025.  Nominations received after 15 May 2025, will not be 
considered.
    a.  Echelon II Commands may submit a total of five nominations, but no 
more than one per award category.
    b.  Joint Commands may submit one naval nominee in each award category 
and one team nomination.  The joint team nomination may be comprised of non-
naval military personnel if the Navy has administrative and support 
responsibility for the joint activity.
    c.  To receive confirmation of package arrival, nomination packages must 
include Echelon II Command or Joint Command POC e-mail addresses and phone 
numbers.
    d.  Do not submit nominee biographies or photos as they will not be 
included in the package reviewed by the awards panel.
    e.  Commands must refrain from using descriptive pronouns (he, she, his, 
and her) and titles (Mr., Ms., and Mrs.) to ensure objectivity during award 
package review.
    f.  For individual awards, the word nominee may be utilized as necessary 
to refer to the nominee.

7.  Points of contact are as follows:
    a.  CDR Rudy Mason, N4L5, at (703)695-4929 or 
rudy.mason2.mil(at)us.navy.mil.
    b.  LCDR Mario Brooks, N4L5, at (703)614-7963 or 
mario.d.brooks5.mil(at)us.navy.mil.
    c.  LT Ryan Charles, N4L5, at (703)695-4759 or 
ryan.e.charles.mil(at)us.navy.mil.

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral Jeffrey T. Jablon, DCNO N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

