RTTUZYUW RHOIAAA0001 1281618-UUUU--RHSSSUU
ZNR UUUUU
R 071612Z MAY 20 MID110000653894U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 137/20

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/PUBLICATION OF BUPERSINST 1610.10E (EVALMAN) CHANGE ONE//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/6DEC19//
REF/B/DOC/SECNAV/5FEB19//
REF/C/DOC/CNO/4DEC19//
REF/D/DOC/SECNAV/2MAR20//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1610.10E, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.  
REF B IS SECRETARY OF THE NAVY MEMORANDUM EDUCATION FOR SEAPOWER DECISIONS 
AND IMMEDIATE ACTIONS.  
REF C IS CNO FRAGMENTARY ORDER (FRAGO) 01/2019: A DESIGN FOR MAINTAINING 
MARITIME SUPERIORITY.  
REF D IS THE EDUCATION FOR SEAPOWER STRATEGY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces changes to reference (a) and incorporates 
policy changes announced in references (b) through (d).
The Department of the Navy Chief Learning Officer and the Deputy Chief of 
Naval Operations for Warfighting Development (OPNAV N7) collaborated on and 
concur with the changes to reference (a).  File this NAVADMIN with reference 
(a) and implement these changes for all future Fitness Reports (FITREPs), 
effective immediately.

2.  Learning, innovation and personal and professional development are part 
of our Naval heritage.  References (b) through (d) build on this tradition by 
lifting education to a strategic priority alongside our platforms and weapons 
systems and unifying Departmental leadership direction to regard naval 
education as a critical warfighting enabler.  To achieve a warfighting 
advantage we must instill continuous learning behaviors in our Navy Total 
Force to broaden and deepen their warfighting knowledge, which will enable 
adaptation and improvement, and strengthen mission command to outthink and 
outfight any challenger to American interests.  The global environment is 
complex and rapidly changing and demands the commitment of the Naval Service 
to continuous learning and acceptance of education as an operational 
imperative.

3.  To support these goals, and in conjunction with MyNavyHR efforts to 
integrate education effectively into Sailor 2025 talent management 
initiatives, FITREPs will include specific comments regarding education, 
learning and support for a learning culture.
This requirement will allow us to identify, select and reward those officers 
who have demonstrated the commitment and ability to learn, as well as those 
who encourage and support the learning of others, by placing them into 
positions of influence at the tactical, operational and strategic levels.
    a.  Reporting Seniors must document:
        (1) All personal achievements in education and learning that 
contribute to a culture of continuous learning, improved knowledge and 
warfighting effectiveness at both the individual and unit level.
Resources include:
            (a) Resident and non-resident professional military education 
coursework,
            (b) Professional and academic qualifications and certifications,
            (c) Civilian education coursework,
            (d) A personal reading program that includes (but is not limited 
to) selections from the Chief of Naval Operations Reading List,
            (e) Participation in discussion groups and military societies,
            (f) Publishing in national security or military journals, and
            (g) Involvement in learning through new technologies.

For purposes of this NAVADMIN, military societies are organizations that 
exist specifically to support education, training and professional 
development of personnel in a given community.  The definition of military 
societies does not include associations intended to promote the morale or 
general well-being of Service Members.

        (2) Individual commitment to intellectual growth in ways beneficial 
to the Navy, including rigorous self-assessment and efforts to improve:
            (a) Leadership,
            (b) Decision making,
            (c) Creativity,
            (d) Analytic ability,
            (e) Commitment to ethics,
            (f) Geopolitical awareness, and
            (g) Understanding of emerging military technologies and complex 
military operations.
        (3) The effort of the individual to support the continuing education 
of subordinates they command or supervise.
        (4) The degree to which the officer continued to assess self, develop 
professionally, improve current skills and knowledge and acquire new skills.
        (5) The extent to which these achievements increase the breadth and 
depth of warfighting and leadership aptitude.
    b.  The following guidance alters the scoring criteria for existing 
performance traits and instructions for written comments to capture 
educational and learning achievements in the NAVPERS 1610/2
(11-11) (FITNESS REPORT and COUNSELING RECORD (W2-O6)).
        (1) Personal achievement in education and learning and support of the 
education and learning efforts of other Service Members will be linked to 
block 1.0, 3.0, and 5.0 performance trait content.  Existing and the 
supplemental trait content provided below shall be considered by the 
Reporting Senior in assigning performance marks in these trait categories:
            (a) BLOCK 33.  Professional Expertise.  Level of professional 
knowledge, improves skills and achieves timely qualifications.
                  1.  1.0 Block Fails to assess personal strengths or 
weaknesses.  Lacks commitment to personal, educational, or professional 
development of self or others.
                  2.  3.0 Block Demonstrates professional growth through 
self-assessment, education and training.  Plans and executes professional 
development or educational opportunities for others.
Applies lessons learned to improve decision making, analytical ability and 
performance.
                  3.  5.0 Block Dedicated to lifelong learning.
Makes time for study and takes advantage of educational resources and 
programs.  Promotes a workplace culture that inspires Service
Members toward continuing education and development.  Holds others 
accountable for their personal and professional growth.
Achievements in education, learning, self-improvement and support for others 
efforts directly contributed to unit readiness and warfighting effectiveness.
            (b) BLOCK 36.  Teamwork.  Contributions toward team building and 
team results, Team builder, talented mentor.
                  1.  1.0 Block Fails to support subordinate participation in 
education, learning and development programs.
                  2.  3.0 Block Committed to self-improvement, education and 
learning to enhance unit readiness and warfighting readiness.  Develops or 
supports education and learning opportunities that help subordinates reach 
their potential.
                  3.  5.0 Block Dedication to learning and self-improvement 
inspires subordinate education and learning.
Inspirational commitment, support and encouragement to others educational 
achievements positively impacts unit level readiness and mission 
effectiveness.
             (c) BLOCK 38.  Leadership.  Organizing, motivating and 
developing others to accomplish goals.  Growth, development in subordinates.
                  1.  1.0 Block Fails to support an environment that allows 
personal and professional development through education and learning.
                  2.  3.0 Block Engaged in self-improvement programs across 
wide ranging areas.  Personal dedication to education and learning encourages 
others self-improvement efforts.
Emphasizes personal, professional and educational development of 
subordinates."
                  3.  5.0 Block Widely recognized leader in learning and 
developmental achievement.  Subordinates desire to serve under this 
individual because of support for personal and professional growth.  Attitude 
toward development through education and learning is infectious and extends 
beyond the unit.  Leading contributor to culture of continuous learning.
            (2) For Block 41 (Comments on Performance), document professional 
military education, off-duty education and other educational and learning 
achievements pursued during the reporting period.
    c.  We will also update selection board precept and convening order 
guidance to direct board membership to review and brief specific education 
and learning contributions found in the official service records of eligible 
personnel, and to consider these documented accomplishments across the career 
of an individual when deliberating the best and fully qualified selection 
criteria.
Statutory and administrative selection board presidents will be held 
accountable for ensuring compliance with this guidance in respect to board 
processes.

3.  Summary of additional changes in reference (a).
    a.  Modifies language in the instruction to clarify that for enlisted 
EVALs, Active Duty and Full-Time Support should be grouped together in 
Summary Groups.
    b.  Clarifies language in the instruction for a reporting period in which 
a Service Member has failed two consecutive Physical
Fitness Assessments.
    c.  Clarifies frocking report guidance by removing E-6-only.
This change eliminates ambiguity as to whether Promotion/Frocking EVALs are 
required for other enlisted paygrades and adds an E-5 example.
    d.  Modifies language in the instruction to account for
Strategic Sealift Officers to receive a Fitness Report instead of a 
Performance Information Memorandum for Annual Training.
    e.  Revises CWO1 to reflect WO1 throughout reference (a).
    f.  Modifies the Mid-term Counseling Schedule table to reflect the month 
of March for Mid-term Counseling for CWO2/WO1.
    g.  Modifies language in the instruction to allow Reporting Seniors to 
waive the 90-day minimum report period to submit a Special Report to a 
Promotion Selection Board for officers or Chief Petty Officers assigned to a 
command for less than 90 days.

4.  For questions concerning these policy changes contact the MyNavy Career 
Center at (833) 330-6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.

5.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

