UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 141902Z JAN 22 MID600051439706U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 003/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN// 
 
SUBJ/UNRESTRICTED LINE OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PILOT PROGRAM 
(CORRECTED COPY)// 
 
REF/A/DOC/30NOV21// 
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 
NARR/REF A IS THE UNRESTRICTED LINE OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM 
AUTHORIZATION (100F).  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the unrestricted line (URL) officer 
in-service procurement program (URLO ISPP) and solicits applications from 
qualified enlisted personnel.  This program will send qualifying enlisted 
personnel directly to officer candidate school (OCS) to commission as an URL 
officer.  Applications will be accepted for the following designators on a 
rolling basis:  naval aviation (student naval aviator and student naval 
flight officer), nuclear propulsion officer candidate (NUPOC), surface 
warfare officer, explosive ordinance disposal and special warfare (SEAL). 
 
2.  This program is open to active-duty enlisted Sailors possessing a 
baccalaureate degree who have completed at least six months time in service 
and their initial training pipeline.  Members of the Navy Reserve in any 
status are not eligible for this program. 
 
3.  Application procedures and education requirements are outlined in this 
NAVADMIN and reference (b). 
 
4.  As delineated in reference (a), applicants must meet the prescribed 
qualifications in line with this program and the program authorization (PA) 
of the designator for which they are applying. 
 
5.  Selection process 
    a.  Nominations will occur at the commanding officer (CO) level with 
endorsement by the first flag officer in the COs chain of 
command.  Nominations from the initial training pipeline will not be 
accepted.  The nominating CO and endorsing flag officer do not need to be a 
URL officer.  Applicants must be favorably nominated using the COs 
recommendation section in the officer programs application, OPNAV 
1420/1.  The COs endorsement shall contain 
        (1) A statement indicating whether the applicant is serving on full 
duty without limitation; 
        (2) A statement that the applicant meets physical fitness and body 
fat percentage standards; and 
        (3) A statement addressing any adverse performance evaluation data as 
well as positive steps taken by the applicant to address these performance 
issues. 
    b.  *Well-Qualified Applicant Profiles* contained in some of the 
designator specific PAs contain guidelines for measurable characteristics of 
the Sailors the programs seek to commission. 
    c.  COs should ensure all portions are completed and that the applicant 
meets all URLO ISPP and designator-specific eligibility criteria. 
    d.  COs will then forward nominations to the first flag officer in their 
chain of command for endorsement. 
    e.  The first flag officer, if in concurrence, will forward nominations 
and endorsement to Commander, Navy Recruiting Command (CNRC). 
    f.  CNRC will review all nominations to ensure that URLO ISPP and 
individual PA requirements are met.  CNRC will reject any nomination that is 
incomplete, ineligible or if the applicants requested designator is closed 
due to unavailable quotas.  In such cases, CNRC will return nominations to 
the originating command and the first flag officer will be notified of the 
discrepancy which prevented further processing. 
    g.  CNRC will forward complete nomination packages to BUPERS-31 for 
consideration at URLO ISPP selection panels.  Selection panels will be held 
at least quarterly or in conjunction with scheduled URL professional 
recommendation boards. 
    h.  Following the URLO ISPP selection panel, CNRC will notify COs and 
applicants of the results and then process selectees to attend OCS at the 
earliest opportunity. 
 
6.  Additional requirements 
    a.  Aviation candidates must have a minimum aviation selection test 
battery score in line with the PA for the specific designator for which they 
apply.  The officer aptitude rating must meet minimum requirements as 
prescribed in the specific designator PA. 
    b.  Applicants shall be of good moral character and have no record of 
disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 15, 
no court-martial convictions and no civilian felony convictions by any civil 
court or misdemeanors (except minor ($300 or less fine) traffic violations) 
within the three years preceding selection.  An offense involving driving 
under the influence of an intoxicant (driving under the influence/driving 
while intoxicated, etc.) is a major traffic violation and is disqualifying if 
within four years preceding selection date.  Pre-service drug use or alcohol 
abuse is not an immediate application disqualifier, however, any 
substantiated in-service drug use or in-service alcohol abuse (any record of 
either, regardless of date) will result in disqualification. 
    c.  To ensure applicants are ready for OCS physical fitness requirements, 
applicants must have passed their most recent physical fitness assessment 
(PFA) with an overall score of at least *excellent*.  If no official physical 
readiness test (PRT) scores are available, a mock PFA will suffice provided 
it is administered by a qualified command fitness leader.  The run option is 
the preferred cardio option for the PFA as there are no alternate cardio 
options offered at OCS. 
    d.  Applicants must have a minimum of six months time in service in order 
to apply. 
    e.  There is no requirement that an applicant have achieved their warfare 
qualification.  Not having a warfare qualification will not be viewed 
adversely by the URLO ISPP selection board. 
    f.  Sailors assigned to a nuclear training command or who hold a nuclear 
Navy enlisted classification (N1XX/N2XX) must obtain a conditional release 
from nuclear field duty when applying to a non-nuclear officer commissioning 
program.  To obtain a conditional release, a Sailor must submit an enlisted 
personnel action request (NAVPERS 1306/7) to the Nuclear Propulsion Program 
Management Branch (OPNAV N133) via their detailer at Navy Personnel Command, 
Enlisted Submarine/Nuclear Power Assignments Division (PERS-403).  Applicants 
must obtain a conditional release prior to submitting their application for a 
non-nuclear officer program. 
    g.  Sailors (both nuclear and non-nuclear) applying for appointment into 
the NUPOC program must meet all program requirements outlined in PA 100A. 
 
7.  No waivers are authorized for URLO ISPP. 
 
8.  URLO ISPP results will be released via BUPERS Online.  Due to the nature 
of the selection process, applicants and their commands will be contacted 
directly by CNRC. 
 
9.  PAs can be found by going to the MyNavy HR website 
(https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/) and clicking on career management, 
then community management, then officer community. 
 
10.  Points of contact 
    a.  URLO ISPP program manager questions:  LCDR James Barfoot, Branch 
Head, General Officer Accessions (CNRC N311) at (901) 874-9419 or 
james.e.barfoot(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  Policy questions:  LCDR Edward Kenneweg, Officer Force Shaping Plans 
and Policy Office (OPNAV N131) at (703) 604-5081 or 
edward.w.kenneweg2.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until 30 November 2023 or when 
superseded. 
 
12.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
