CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 101613Z JUL 23 MID120000291651U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 155/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL// 
 
SUBJ/BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE UPDATE ONE// 
 
REF/A/DOC/USC/29DEC22// 
REF/B/DOC/DOD/1JUL23// 
REF/C/DOC/ASN/14DEC22// 
REF/D/DOC/CNO/22DEC22// 
 
NARR/REF A IS TITLE 37 U.S.C. 402(B), BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE FOR MEMBERS ON 
ACTIVE SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES.   
REF B IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTRUCTION 1341.15, BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE.   
REF C IS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS) 
DELEGATION MEMO - BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE.   
REF D IS NAVADMIN 289/22, BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces updates to Navy policy and procedures for 
the basic needs allowance (BNA). 
 
2.  In line with reference (a), reference (b) established change one to the 
Department of Defense policy for BNA.  Reference (c) authorizes the Chief of 
Naval Personnel to implement BNA policy. This NAVADMIN supersedes reference 
(d).  The BNA program provides a monthly allowance to Sailors whose gross 
household income (GHI) and household size places them below 150 percent of 
Federal Poverty Guidelines (FPG) for their permanent duty station (PDS) 
location. BNA provides additional income to address the difference between 
GHI from the previous calendar year (CY) and 150 percent of the FPG for the 
current CY.  These references, frequently asked questions, templates, and 
other BNA resources can be found here: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/Pay-Benefits/. 
 
3.  Eligibility.  In line with paragraph 3.2.a of reference (b), eligibility 
for BNA requires that a Sailor meets all of the following criteria: 
    a.  They have completed initial entry training (IET).  For purposes of 
BNA, this coincides with a Sailor arriving at the first PDS after completion 
of all required training at any location, including training locations that 
are considered a PDS. 
    b.  Their GHI during the most recent CY did not exceed 150 percent of the 
FPG for that year. 
    c.  They have dependents enrolled in Defense Enrollment Eligibility 
Reporting System (DEERS) and listed on their Dependency Application/Record of 
Emergency Data (NAVPERS 1070/602). 
    d.  They voluntarily applied for BNA and were certified by Navy Pay and 
Personnel Support Center (NPPSC). 
 
4.  Ineligibility.  In line with paragraph 3.2.b of reference (b), Sailors 
are ineligible to receive BNA if any of the following items apply: 
    a.  They have not completed IET. 
    b.  They do not have any dependents. 
    c.  Their GHI during the most recent CY exceeded 150 percent of the FPG 
for that year. 
    d.  Their current, annualized GHI exceeds 150 percent of the FPG for the 
previous CY. 
    e.  They are a midshipman at the United States Naval Academy or in the 
Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps. 
 
5.  Screening.  NPPSC will conduct monthly screenings.  No input from Sailors 
or commands is required for this screening.  NPPSC will provide each command 
a list of Sailors who have screened as potentially eligible for BNA via 
enterprise Customer Relationship Management (eCRM), if available, and an 
email to the command triad and command pay and personnel administrators 
(CPPA).  Commands can also review potentially eligible members by reviewing 
BNA reports available in the enhanced Unit Commander's Financial Report 
(eUCFR). 
 
6.  Notification.  Sailors who screen as potentially eligible to receive BNA 
will be officially notified by their chain of command via an Administrative 
Remarks (NAVPERS 1070/613) and be provided an application cover sheet as 
described in paragraph 13. 
    a.  Units are required to report to NPPSC the total number of Sailors 
notified each month by the fifth day of the following month. Units will use 
the BNA Monthly Report described in paragraph 13 and submit to NPPSC via 
eCRM, if available, or via email using nppsc- audit@us.navy.mil.  The report 
will include all subordinate unit identification codes that do not have their 
own commanding officer (CO).  Reports are not required if there have been no 
notifications. 
    b.  If a Sailor is notified via NAVPERS 1070/613 that they may be 
eligible for BNA, they have 180 days to submit an application or they will be 
deemed ineligible until rescreened.  Sailors who are notified during IET have 
180 days to apply after arrival at their first PDS after completion of IET or 
they will be deemed ineligible until rescreened. 
    c.  Once notified of potential eligibility to receive BNA, Sailors should 
further determine their eligibility based on their total GHI before starting 
an application.  Resources available to assist Sailors include but are not 
limited to their CPPAs, Personal Financial Managers (PFM) at the local Fleet 
and Family Support Center (FFSC), and their command financial specialists 
(CFSs). Additional resources can be found at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/Pay-Benefits/. 
 
7.  Application Process: 
    a.  Sailors may submit an application whether or not they have been 
notified as potentially eligible for BNA. 
    b.  Sailors in IET cannot submit an application until they have arrived 
at the first PDS after completion of all required training at any location, 
including training locations that are considered a PDS. 
    c.  Sailors in receipt of separation orders may not apply for BNA. 
    d.  Applications will be submitted to NPPSC via eCRM or sent via email 
using nppsc-audit@us.navy.mil if eCRM is not available at the command.  This 
application should be in a single .pdf file and must include the following: 
        (1) Completed application cover sheet signed by the CPPA or other 
designated verifying official and endorsed by the CO. 
        (2) Supporting documentation to confirm GHI in line with the 
definition of GHI in section g.2 of reference (b). 
        (3) Copy of NAVPERS 1070/613 screening notification, if applicable. 
    e.  Additional GHI considerations are described in paragraph 3.4.b.(8) 
and (9) of reference (b). 
    f.  Sailors are encouraged to seek assistance during the application 
process.  Personnel available to assist with the application include but are 
not limited to CPPAs, PFMs at the FFSC, and CFSs. 
 
8.  Application Adjudication.  NPPSC is the adjudicating authority for BNA 
applications.  Adjudication will occur within 30 days of receipt of a 
complete, verified application endorsed by the CO. NPPSC will adjudicate 
applications as certified, ineligible, or incomplete, and will provide a 
detailed explanation of the outcome via eCRM or e-mail. 
    a.  Correspondence to Sailors will be expeditiously retrieved from eCRM 
or e-mail by the command and delivered to the Sailor.  The Sailor is required 
to initial the correspondence next to their name to confirm receipt. 
    b.  If an application is adjudicated as certified, BNA is effective on 
the date of certification and first payment will be made within 30 
days.  Counseling requirements listed in paragraph 3.7.c of reference (b) 
will be explained in the certification notification letter to the Sailor. 
    c.  NPPSC will maintain documentation, disaggregated by month, of all 
items listed in paragraph 3.5.f of reference (b). 
 
9.  Special BNA Eligibility Considerations.  See paragraph 3.2.c of reference 
(b).  BNA will terminate 60 days after Sailors become ineligible due to their 
monthly GHI, when annualized, exceeding 150 percent of the previous year 
FPG.  For example, a Sailor that receives a promotion and becomes ineligible 
for BNA due to the pay increase, will continue to receive BNA at the 
previously calculated rate for 60 days after the date of promotion. 
 
10.  Computation of Allowance.  Monthly BNA payment is equal to 1.5 times the 
most recently published annual FPG for the CY during which the allowance is 
paid based on the Sailor household size, minus the Sailor's GHI during the 
previous calendar year, divided by 12.  A sample BNA payment computation and 
information on BNA proration for periods of duty under 30 days are found in 
Figure 1 and paragraph 3.6.c of reference (b), respectively. 
 
11.  Recertification Requirements: 
    a.  In line with paragraph 3.7.b of reference (b), for Sailors receiving 
BNA, recertification by NPPSC is required if any of the following occur: 
        (1) 12 months has elapsed since their BNA was last certified. 
        (2) Their monthly, recurring GHI increases by $150 or more per month. 
        (3) The number of dependents in their household changes. 
    b.  If GHI increases by $150 or more per month due to changes other than 
military compensation, Sailors receiving BNA are responsible to notify NPPSC 
via their CPPA through eCRM or email within 60 days.  NPPSC will monitor 
changes in military compensation and will recertify eligibility when military 
compensation increases. 
        (1) GHI changes that require notification to NPPSC will be submitted 
to NPPSC using the GHI update document described in paragraph 13.  A new 
application is not required when providing routine GHI updates. 
        (2) Failure to notify NPPSC within 60 days of a qualifying GHI change 
may result in termination of BNA eligibility and recoupment of any 
overpayment. 
        (3) GHI updates do not require CO endorsement.  CO endorsement is 
required for applications only. 
    c.  NPPSC will automatically recertify and recalculate BNA payments due 
to changes in military compensation or number of dependents of a 
participating Sailor as long as DEERS is current and updated by the 
Sailor.  NPPSC will provide an updated adjudication via eCRM or email 
detailing any changes to BNA status. 
    d.  No later than 10 January each year, Sailors receiving BNA will submit 
a GHI update document with substantiating documentation to NPPSC to establish 
their previous CY GHI. 
 
12.  Reserve Component (RC).  Members of the RC on Active Duty as defined in 
Section 101 of Title 37, U.S.C. may apply for BNA if otherwise eligible.  For 
purposes of BNA, if the Active Duty orders are for temporary duty, the PDS is 
the Navy Reserve Center to which the member is assigned.  If the active duty 
orders involve a PCS, the new PDS location is used for purposes of BNA. 
 
13.  BNA Documents.  Specific tools and templates are required to be utilized 
during the screening, notification, and application processes.  All items can 
be found here:  https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/Pay-Benefits/. 
    a.  The following document templates are required to be used in the 
execution of BNA: 
        (1) NAVPERS 1070/613.  Utilized for all official notifications once a 
Sailor is screened as potentially eligible. 
        (2) Application Cover Sheet.  Required to be utilized for application 
submission to NPPSC via eCRM or email. 
        (3) GHI Update Document.  Submitted by Sailors receiving BNA when 
criteria are met as described in paragraph 11.b and by 10 January each CY. 
        (4) BNA Monthly Report.  Units will submit the reporting template 
monthly via eCRM or email no later than the fifth day each month with total 
number of Sailors notified of potential eligibility.  No report is required 
if no Sailors were notified. 
 
14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, or 31 
July 2028, whichever occurs first.  POC for BNA policy is the Military Pay 
and Compensation Policy Branch (OPNAV N130).  OPNAV N130 can be reached via 
email at NXAG_N130C@navy.mil. 
 
15.  Released by Ms. Lisa M. St. Andre, Acting N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
