CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 201512Z SEP 24 MID120001402125U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 196/24

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/APR//

REF/A/CNO/OPNAVINST 5726.8C//
NARR/REF A is CNO's Outreach:  America's Navy//

SUBJ/249TH NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER//

RMKS/

1.  13 October 2024 will mark the Navy's 249th Birthday. The central theme of 
this year's 249th Birthday and Heritage Week will be "Warfighting Strength 
and Readiness,"
which directly aligns with the Chief of Naval Operation's priorities of 
having a superior maritime force, able to be inserted into any warfighting 
situation at a moment's notice.
Beginning with the establishment of our Navy in 1775 and continuing to our 
current modern fleet, our Navy and the warfighters that serve it have been 
ready, and will continue to prepare for the challenges of an unpredictable 
future.

2.  Today, the Navy's Birthday celebrates our traditions of honor, courage 
and commitment, and recognizes Sailors past and present who are the 
foundation upon which we have built the world's greatest Navy and secured 
victories for our nation.

3.  Commander's Intent
    a.  Purpose:  Celebrate 249 years of naval history on or around 13 
October
    2024.
    b.  Method:  Execute a global birthday celebration with events in a 
manner
    that bring honor and respect upon our service and adhere to local command
    budget and health guidelines.
    c.  End State:  Instill in our Sailors and communicate with the public 
the importance of, and a sense of pride in, our Navy's history and heritage.
    Harness the unique stories of the entire Navy force uniformed Sailors 
active and reserve, officer and enlisted, and civilians to showcase the 
Navy's value and relevance. Celebrate our hard-fought victories in all 
domains and honor our shipmates who have stood and stand he watch.

4.  Tasks
    a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
development for the annual Navy Birthday celebration.
    b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC) will:
       (1) Task all Navy commands with the execution of Navy Birthday
commemorative activities with respect to current mission requirements and 
resources of each command.
       (2) Provide digital resources, to include Plan of the Day historical
notes for use by U.S. Fleet Forces Command (USFFC); Commander, Pacific Fleet
(COMPACFLT); Commander, Naval Reserve Forces Command (COMRESFOR); Commander, 
Naval Installations Command (CNIC); Chief of Navy Information (CHINFO);
       Regional Commanders and Commanding Officers (COs) and Officers in 
Charge (OICs) through the Navy Birthday toolkit at: 
https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic/commemorations-toolkits/navy-
birthday.html
       (3) Collect information from USFFC, COMPACFLT, CNIC, COMRESFOR, 
CHINFO, and Naval District Washington (NDW) regarding specific celebratory 
activities.
     c.  USFFC and COMPACFLT, and all assets therein, will:
       (1) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and celebrate the 249th Navy 
Birthday.
       Events shall be coordinated with appropriate Region or Operational 
Commanders to support the requirement for coordinated ceremonies and reported 
to NHHC.
       (2) Execute Communication Plan and participate in planned community
       activities as operationally feasible.
       (3) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 1 November 2024.
       (4) Report command-specific scheduled celebratory activities to NHHC
       weekly starting 23 September 2024 during working group meetings.
       A downloadable reporting document will be made available as part of 
the toolkit.
     d.  CNIC will:
       (1) Ensure Regional Commanders host a Navy Birthday ceremony and other
       celebratory activities during Navy Birthday and heritage week.
       (2) Assist and direct Regional Commanders with a bell ringing ceremony
       and assist subordinate commands with other Navy Birthday celebrations.
       (3) Provide lessons learned via the notes section of the reporting
       document to NHHC NLT 1 November 2024.
       (4) Execute Communication Plan and participate in planned community
       activities as operationally feasible.
       (5) Report command specific scheduled celebratory activities to NHHC
       weekly starting 23 September 2024.
     e.  COMRESFOR will:
       (1) Ensure Regional Reserve Component Commanders and Navy Reserve 
Centers (NRC) host a Navy Birthday celebration, bell ringing,
       and other celebratory activities during Navy Birthday week; including 
during October 2024 drill weekends, or as close to 13 October 2024 as 
feasible.
       (2) Provide lessons learned via the notes section of the reporting
       document to NHHC NLT 1 November 2024.
       (3) Execute Communication Plan and participate in planned community
       activities as operationally feasible.
       (4) Report command specific scheduled celebratory activities to NHHC
       weekly starting 23 September 2024.
     f.  CHINFO will:
       Develop a Navy Birthday Communication Plan in coordination with NHHC, 
to be included in the Navy Birthday Toolkit and available to ashore and 
afloat commands by 20 September 2024.
       This plan should include Navy's strategic message and talking points 
for this event linked to reference (a) efforts.
     g.  Naval District Washington (NDW) will:
       (1) Execute a bell ringing ceremony in honor of those who stood the 
watch in our nation's Navy. Report bell ringing and other celebratory actions 
to NHHC that support the requirement to commemorate the Navy Birthday.
       (2) Provide DNS with plan of action and milestones for the execution 
of the National Capital Region (NCR) Navy Birthday Celebration NLT 20 
September 2024.
       (3) Provide lessons learned from the NCR ceremony to NHHC NLT 1 
November 2024.

5.  Admin
     a.  The following are directed to be available at the NHHC website
     https://www.history.navy.mil/ NLT 20 September 2024:
     Plan of the day historical notes for the week of Navy Birthday, 
commemoration script templates, history stand-down lessons, and a template 
for Navy Birthday bell ringing.
     b.  Regional Commanders, COs and OICs will use NHHC and CHINFO products 
to inform and motivate their Sailors.
     c.  Discretionary celebratory events.  The following is a list 
including, but not limited to, events that Commanders may schedule:
       (1) Bell ringing ceremony
       (2) Plan of the day notes
       (3) Cake cutting
       (4) History stand-down
       (5) Reading of SECNAV/CNO Birthday messages
       (6) Command picnics/fun day
       (7) Golf tournament
       (8) Awards ceremony
       (9) Chief's mess/wardroom luncheons
       (10) Classic Navy movie presentation
       (11) Birthday run
       (12) Re-enlistments
       (13) Birthday ball/dining out
    d.  Public Affairs Guidance
        (1) The PA posture is active for birthday events.
        (2) Public affairs guidance will be provided SEPCOR.

6.  Command relationships
    a.  NHHC is the supported command.
    b.  USFFC, COMPACFLT, CNIC, CHINFO, COMRESFOR, and NDW are supporting
    commands.
    c.  Supplemental Navy Birthday PLANORDS will be released to assist COs 
and OICs in order to implement a successful Navy Birthday celebration.

7.  Point of Contact (POC)
    a.  NHHC POC is Mimosa Whiting, comm:  202-433-0301, email:
    mimosa.whiting.civ(AT)us.navy.mil.
    b.  Supporting commanders provide primary POC contact information to 
Mimosa Whiting by 13 September 2024.

8.  Released by VADM M. E. Boyle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

