CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 201545Z DEC 22 MID200080606527U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 285/22

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM POLICY UPDATE - FALL 2022//

REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23AUG21//

REF/B/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/13APR22//

NARR/REF A IS NAVPERS 15665J, U.S. NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS. REF B IS NAVADMIN 094/22, NAVY 
SECURITY FORCE QUALIFICATION PROGRAM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the approval of several uniform and grooming policy changes, and 
provides an update on current Navy uniform improvement initiatives.  Changes do not add to the 
required seabag and are the result of Sailor feedback, uniform working group discussions, and command 
sponsored requests.

2.  The following uniform and grooming policy changes are approved for implementation:
    a.  Black Cold Weather Parka.  Effective immediately, the black cold weather parka (CWP) may be 
optionally worn with the Navy Working Uniform (NWU) Type III when ashore in non-operational and 
non-industrial environments.  The CWP material is not conducive to wear in industrial or operational 
environments and would result in premature wear, tear, and extra expense to the Sailor.  The NWU 
Type III parka remains a prescribed and required outer garment for wear with the NWU Type III.  The 
CWP also remains a prescribed and required outer garment for wear with service and service dress 
uniforms.
    b.  Dinner Dress Blue and White Jacket.  Effectively immediately, mandatory possession and wear of 
the Dinner Dress Blue and White Jacket uniform is required for officers O-5 through O-10 vice O-4 
through O-10.  Optional wear of the Dinner Dress Blue and White Jacket uniform are authorized for E-1 
through O-4 in line with reference (a).
    c.  Earrings.  Effectively immediately, female Sailors are authorized for optional wear of silver, white 
gold, yellow gold, white pearl, and colorless diamond stud type earrings with all Navy uniforms.  Earring 
manner of wear and authorized size while in uniform (4-6 millimeters or one-eighth to one-fourth of an 
inch) will remain the same in line with reference (a).  Commanding officers may restrict the wear of 
earrings if determined to present a foreign object debris hazard.
    d.  Belted White Skirt.  Effective immediately, the belted white skirt is authorized for wear with a 
female officer and chief petty officer (CPO) Summer White and Service Dress White uniforms.  The 
unbelted white skirt remains optional for wear with the female officer and CPO Service Dress White 
uniform.
    e.  Physical Training Uniform Fitness Suit.  Due to supply chain issues in producing reflective piping, an 
alternate design fitness suit (jacket and pants) without reflective piping is authorized for wear in line 
with existing fitness suit guidelines contained in reference (a).  The alternate design fitness suit is of the 
same basic design, color, and Navy logos as the standard fitness suit, but without reflective piping.  
Sailors may wear fitness suit jackets and pants that do not match with respect to reflective piping but 
are advised to wear a reflective belt or vest when wearing the physical training uniform to conduct 
outdoor physical activities during reduced visibility hours.  The alternate design fitness suit jacket will be 
available for purchase at your local Navy Exchange Uniform Center approximately by December 2022.  
The alternate design pants are expected to be available by approximately May 2023.
    f.  Navy Security Force (NSF) Identification Badge.  Effective immediately, a security force 
identification badge with an engraved black star is added to the list of authorized security force badges 
worn by security force personnel.  The security force badge with the four digit alpha-numeric serial 
number previously issued is also authorized for wear until the NSF member is honorably discharged or 
retired from the Navy.  The new NSF metal identification badges will be available for command purchase 
via military standard requisitioning and issue procedures requisition or through the Defense Logistics 
Agency FedMall e-commerce acquisition platform.
National stock numbers are 8455-01-617-6192 for metal badges and
8455-01-617-6354 for embroidered badges.
    g.  NSF Qualification Breast Insignia.  Effective immediately, wear of the new NSF qualification insignia 
is authorized by qualified security force personnel in line with reference (b).  The manner of wear of the 
NSF insignia is in line with reference (a).
The new breast insignia will be available for purchase through Navy Exchange Uniform Stores in 
December 2022.

3.  The following uniform improvement initiatives are actively under review, development, or 
implementation:
    a.  I-Boot-5.  Introduction of the I-Boot 5 as a seabag requirement commenced on 1 October 2022 at 
Recruit Training Command, Great Lakes.  The I-Boot 5 is a lightweight constructed safety boot, black or 
brown with full inner lining, steel toed, and smooth outer leather.  The I-Boot 5 is suitable for wear in 
multiple Navy environments and weather conditions afloat, airborne, and ashore.
Availability for fleet purchase via Navy Exchanges is expected to commence in April 2023.  Existing NWU 
boots, to include the I-Boot 4, will remain authorized for wear as long as serviceable.  Other optional 
boots will remain authorized for wear as applicable in line with reference (a).
    b.  Improved Black Fleece Liner and Jacket.  An improved design and functional black fleece liner and 
jacket are being developed as a replacement for the current black fleece parka liner.  The new fleece 
liner and jacket concept encompasses two zippered side pockets, an attached rank tab, and weather 
resistant fabric that is suitable for wearing as an outer garment during most weather conditions.
    c.  Maternity Service Dress Blue Coat.  Design improvements to the maternity Service Dress Blue coat 
will incorporate adjustable side tabs to align with all existing maternity uniform tops.  The introduction is 
planned for Summer 2023.
    d.  Size Standardization.  Size standardization is a collaborative effort between the Chief of Naval 
Personnel, Navy Exchange Service Command, and Navy Clothing and Textile Research Facility to improve 
the design and fit of male and female uniforms.
The overall goal of this initiative is to improve the fit/design of male and female uniforms to 
accommodate the current population and reduce the requirement or need for other than standard 
hemming alterations.  The current effort is focused on female slacks, skirts, and shirts and blouses.
    e.  Summer White and Service Dress White Over Blouse.  Two new female over blouse concepts are 
being developed in conjunction with the size standardization initiative for optional wear with female 
officer and CPO Summer White and Service Dress Blue uniforms.
Concepts are currently in their initial development phase and will be showcased during size 
standardization fit demonstrations and concept advertisement articles via media publications.

4.  Questions regarding this NAVADMIN should be addressed to Mr.
Robert B. Carroll, Navy Uniform Matters and Emerging Issues Branch (OPNAV N13X), 
robert.b.carroll3.civ(at)us.navy.mil, or ETCM Richard Baumert, Deputy Branch Head, 
richard.a.baumert2.mil(at)us.navy.mil.

5.  Feedback and recommendations regarding uniform policy, uniform components, and uniform 
availability are welcomed and can be provided via MyNavy portal at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/, select 
*Professional Resources*, *U.S. Navy Uniforms* and *Ask The Chiefs.* Feedback may also be provided 
via the MyNavy UNIFORMS App.

6.  Retain this NAVADMIN until policy changes are incorporated in Navy Uniform Regulations, 
superseded or canceled, whichever occurs first.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

