UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 192012Z JAN 21 MID200000565839U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC
CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 014/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/JAN//

SUBJ/SARS-COV-2 VACCINE ALLOCATION AND LESSONS LEARNED//

REF/A/MSG/OPNAV/161751ZDEC2020//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/14JAN2021//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 327/20 SARS-COV-2 VACCINATION AND REPORTING POLICY.
REF B is OPNAV Vaccine Distribution and Administration Schema Version 3.3.// 
POC/CAPT Ronald Stowe /(703)697-3791/RONALD.STOWE(AT)NAVY.MIL
POC/BUMED COVID-19 CRISIS ACTION TEAM /(703)681-1125/EMAIL:
USN.NCR.BUMEDFCHVA.MBX.BUMED-2019-NCOV-RESPONSE-CELL(at)MAIL.MIL//

RMKS/1. The Department of the Navy began vaccinating Sailors and DON 
Civilians on 15 December 20 for novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2.  This NAVADMIN 
explains the Navy vaccine allocation process and shares OPNAV and Fleet 
identified lessons learned. Policy, administration and medical guidance for 
vaccination is covered in reference (a). The overall Navy prioritization 
schema for vaccine distribution is contained in reference (b).

2. Vaccine Allocation Process.

2.a. The Department of Defense allocation for all currently approved vaccines 
is provided Tuesday of each week.  Approximately 28% of that allocation is 
allotted to the Department of the Navy (USN and USMC).
The OPNAV and Head Quarters Marine Corps COVID Cells divide the DoN share 
based on service end-strength.

2.b. The OPNAV COVID Cell recommends allocation of vaccine to Navy Military 
Treatment Facilities (MTF) based on four factors: (1) Personnel remaining in 
each phase/tier of reference (b); (2) Vaccine on hand at each MTF; 
(3)Demonstrated vaccination throughput at each MTF; (4) Vaccine allocated to 
the MTF the previous week.  The overarching goal is to keep the navy 
geographically uniform in the vaccine schema while delivering vaccine to 
those MTFs who can quickly vaccinate their population.

2.c. Accuracy of updating the existing data systems is crucial for effective 
OPNAV decision making.  The OPNAV COVID Cell uses daily vaccination data 
reported by each MTF, vaccination data on each Sailor reported in the Medical 
Readiness Reporting System (MRRS), and Defense Medical Logistics Supply 
System (DMLSS) vaccine inventory reports for each MTF.

2.d. Vaccination progress by UIC organized by reference (b) schema is 
available for approximately 5500 Navy commands as informed by the Echelon 2 
commanders and maintained by the OPNAV COVID Cell.  Data is posted daily at: 
https 
://portal.secnav.navy.mil/cop/crc/COVID/Vaccine%20Info/Forms?ALLItems.aspx

2.e. The OPNAV COVID Cell transmits the updated weekly Vaccine Serial every 
Thursday.

2.f. Government civilian population and other authorized beneficiaries will 
be included in vaccine reports in para 2.d as medical reporting data becomes 
available from Defense Health Agency.

2.g. Second doses are automatically shipped two to three weeks after the 
shipment of the initial allocation.  Second doses are not covered or reported 
in the OPNAV Allocation serial and are coordinated by MTF Commanders and 
previously vaccinated units.

3. Unit Prioritization.  Each MTF has been aligned to a Naval Component 
Commander (NCC).  All other Echelon 2 commanders provide their subordinate 
units prioritized IAW reference (b) to the NCC and segregated by the 
supporting MTF.  NCCs consolidate inputs and provide each MTF with a 
prioritized local list of commands.

4. Fleet Vaccination Lessons Learned.  Efficiently distributing and 
administering these vaccines is critical to force health, mission assurance 
and a return to normalcy.  The lessons below have been effective.

4.a. There is no substitute for positive Command Triad Leadership.

4.a.1. Ensure Sailors understand the enormous benefits of the vaccine.
Currently, 2 of 3 Sailors who are offered the vaccine take it.  Bring medical 
personnel in to answer any and all questions.

4.a.2. Consider conducting a survey to assess reasons for vaccine 
declination, using results to inform electronic and TEAMS-based All-Hands 
messaging.
This increased the take rate at one TYCOM by 9%.

4.a.3. Utilize centralized messaging to minimize confusion.  A fleet or 
TYCOM-level vaccination cell can connect lines of communication between 
subordinate commands and MTFs. Involve installation commanders early in the 
process to improve efficiency and reduce confusion.

4.a.4. Actively manage standby lists; have ready units on short-call to 
improve throughput.

4.b. Preparation.

4.b.1. MTF coordination and communication with the supported commands ahead 
of the vaccination shot-exercise significantly improves efficiency.

4.b.2. MTFs should post or provide all required forms to ships medical teams 
as part of the pre-coordination.  Units should arrive at the site with 
paperwork complete.

4.b.3. NCCs should provide MTFs a list daily from local commands of personnel 
desiring the vaccine but not yet scheduled to ensure 100 percent utilization 
of thawed vials.

4.c. All hands effort.

4.c.1. NCCs or TYPE Commanders assign a senior (O6 and/or senior E-9) 
leadership team at the vaccination site to help direct traffic, manage NCC 
priorities and ensure the next unit is on deck at the right time.  An 
assigned senior leader at some sites has ensured steady progress of 
vaccination while maintaining social distancing protocols.

4.c.2. All available medical personnel, including waterfront corpsman 
assigned to non-MTF staffs should be trained and employed to vaccinate 
personnel.

4.c.3. Non-medical personnel (ships force or staff) should be employed to 
make record entries, following Health Insurance Portability Act and 
Personally Identifying Information training.

4.c.4. Schedule make up/clean up blocks of time in advance for command 
personnel who are not able to attend the primary shot-exercise, such as 
watchstanders.

4.c.5. MTFs employing a consistent dedicated team to distribute vaccine can 
improve efficiency and teamwork.

4.c.6. Identification of stand-by personnel or units during shot-exercises is 
critical to assure best use of the vaccine.  Having personnel on stand-by 
will reduce the risk of lost vaccine due to vaccination time restrictions 
after vials are opened for use.

4.d. Site planning:

4.d.1. NCCs publish site plans / map in advance when feasible.

4.d.2. Prepare the site with clear signs, barriers and cones to support 
traffic flow.  Consider a receiving area with a welcome desk to answer 
questions at the beginning of the process.

4.d.3. Conduct Shot-exercises as close to the Sailors work space as possible, 
on the waterfront, headquarters, etc. Bring the shot to the Sailor.

4.d.4. When employing mobile shot-exercise locations, consider establishing a 
base camp to manage data entry at a centralized location.

4.d.5. For smaller geographic areas, a dedicated operations location ensures 
repeatable processes and efficient, consistent execution.

4.e. Data entry.  Accuracy of updates provided to BUMED and entered into the 
existing MRRS and DMLSS systems is crucial to accurate future allocation 
decisions.

5. Released by VADM P. G. Sawyer, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans and Strategy, OPNAV N3/N5.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


