UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 072031Z JAN 21 MID200000522699U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 03/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JAN//

SUBJ/DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COVID-19 TESTING PRIOR TO OVERSEAS TRAVEL//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/042056ZNOV20//
REF/B/USD P&R MEMO/29DEC20//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/302124ZOCT20//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 298/20, US NAVY COVID-19 STANDARDIZED OPERATIONAL 
GUIDANCE VERSION 3.1.  
REF B IS FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION GUIDANCE (SUPPLEMENT 14).  
REF C IS NAVADMIN 294/20, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COVID-19 RAPID ON-SITE 
TESTING AT BALTIMORE AND SEATTLE PATRIOT EXPRESS AERIAL PORTS OF 
EMBARKATION.//

RMKS/1.  In line with references (a) and (b), this NAVADMIN announces 
Department of Defense requirements for COVID-19 testing prior to overseas 
travel.  This message also incorporates and updates information contained in 
reference (c), United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) 
implementation of rapid on-site COVID-19 testing capability at Baltimore and 
Seattle Patriot Express Aerial Ports of Embarkation (APOE) operated by Air 
Mobility Command (AMC).  Reference (c) is hereby cancelled.

2.  The dynamic nature of the COVID-19 pandemic requires the implementation 
of measures to mitigate the risk of COVID-19 spread outside the Continental 
United States (OCONUS).  Many countries now require negative test results 
before arrival.  To ensure service members and families are not refused 
travel or delayed, all travelers executing OCONUS orders are now required to 
have a negative viral COVID-19 test (molecular or antigen).  An antigen test 
may be used for testing prior to travel when a molecular test (such as 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or Abbott ID NOW) is not available.  However, 
a molecular test is the preferred test prior to travel.  If the destination 
location requires a specific test, test timing, or test result format, 
travelers must follow the more strict requirement.

3.  Service members and/or family members must do the following:
    a.  Possess, and present on request, proof of a negative viral
COVID-19 test administered within 72 hours of embarkation for OCONUS travel 
for each traveling family member.  Valid proof may be electronic or printed.  
Proof will be requested prior to AMC Patriot Express (rotator) flights but 
may not be requested prior to commercial flights.
Travelers should verify specific country entry requirements to avoid delays, 
fines, or other complications upon arrival.
Note:  If previously infected with COVID-19, a molecular COVID-19 test may 
still produce a positive result.  If unable to achieve a negative result, 
consult with medical provider, the Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG), and/or your 
travel provider to determine if the destination will allow entry with a 
letter from a physician.
    b.  Review the FCG (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/Fcg.cfm) to determine 
the exact entry requirements for the final destination (does not apply to 
routine intermediate stops).  Additionally, travelers are encouraged to 
register for the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP)
(https://step.state.gov) for a free service enabling travelers to enroll 
their trip with the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate.  This service provides 
updates from the embassy regarding travel requirements and safety conditions 
in the destination country.
    c.  Review associated destination requirements, such as type of test, 
timing, or test result format, to determine specifics for entry that may be 
more restrictive than service policy, e.g., testing within 72 hours from 
arrival instead of embarkation  in this case, travelers must execute their 
testing in order to arrive at their embarkation site with proof and have 
sufficient time remaining to travel to their destination prior to the 
requirement expiring.
    d.  Plan intermediate travel and leave.  Do not place you and your family 
in extremis should an unexpected restriction of movement (ROM) be required 
enroute prior to embarkation.  During trip planning, ensure you identify 
facilities along your route of travel that will accommodate you or a family 
member who may become COVID-positive.  Additionally, financially plan for an 
extended trip and/or additional tests should they become necessary.  We 
encourage service members to use their Government Travel Charge Card (GTCC) 
for travel expenses on official orders as this will assist in alleviating 
personal financial impact.
    e.  Take responsibility for testing.  The service is providing the 
following options in priority order to assist with individual travel 
situations, but it is the travelers responsibility to ensure all requirements 
have been met:
        (1) When traveling on the AMC Patriot Express (rotator) flights, 
Madigan Army Medical Center (Seattle) and Walter Reed National Military 
Medical Center (Baltimore), have been designated as primary testing sites for 
APOEs.  These centers are staffed and funded to test Patriot Express 
travelers in possession of OCONUS orders.  Travelers are encouraged to appear 
in person 48 hours prior to embarkation at the APOE.  Walk-up testing is 
located in temporary shelters outside the facilities.  Direct communication 
with the testing sites is limited.
Applicable contact information as follows:
            (a) Baltimore AMC Gateway:  (609) 253-8825, limited operations.
            (b) Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Bethesda,
MD:  Central Screening - (571) 335-9985, Testing - 0700-1600 EST, no weekends 
or holidays.
            (c) Seattle AMC Gateway:  (253) 982-3504/0555, limited 
operations.
           (d) Madigan Army Medical Center, McChord, WA:  Preventative 
Medicine Department - (253) 968-4443, Testing - 0600-1700 PST, weekends 
included, no holidays.
        (2) Other military treatment facilities (MTF) may execute free tests 
for service members and dependents if tests are scheduled prior to arrival at 
the MTF for those in possession of OCONUS orders.  MTFs should deliver hard 
copy documentation of test results within 24 hours of testing to the service 
members and dependents.  This allows for testing in a different area than 
former duty stations to account for leave or training in route.  A non-
inclusive list of preferred MTFs may be found via the MyNavy Portal, 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/.
Note:  Most MTFs are closed during the weekend  travelers are encouraged to 
plan for alternate solutions if boarding a flight at the beginning of the 
week.
        (3) Commercial sites that support antigen or molecular-based tests 
(PCR and Abbott ID NOW) may be used to satisfy the requirement.
TRICARE does not fund strictly travel-based tests.  Travelers should be 
prepared to pay for tests and will be refunded via travel claim in line with 
Joint Travel Regulations if traveling on OCONUS orders.  We encourage service 
members to use their GTCC for travel expenses on official orders as this will 
support these tests.  For those that choose not to use the GTCC on official 
orders, recommend taking advance travel pay as molecular-based tests may be 
expensive.  Additionally, if commercial sites require an upfront fee in an 
effort to bill TRICARE, service members should ensure to submit the full 
testing cost via travel claim.
    f.  Travelers that test positive for COVID-19 while executing OCONUS 
travel must do the following:
        (1) Immediately execute ROM procedures.  If a member of a family unit 
tests positive, the entire family unit must commence ROM.
Travelers may not proceed separately.  If not already in place at suitable 
lodging, priority for ROM site should be given to the following in order:  1) 
APOE, 2) home or detaching installation, 3) nearby family member, 4) nearby 
acceptable military installation and 5) nearby acceptable hotel.  Call ahead 
to the preferred ROM site for notification and support.  If no ROM site is 
available and additional support is required, call the MyNavy Career Center 
(MNCC)  contact information below.  If at a PE APOE, USTRANSCOM/AMC will take 
immediate responsibility for the travelers, to include medical, lodging, pet 
services, meals and transportation support.  AMC will direct travelers to 
nearby military installations or participating lodging sites.  While in ROM, 
travelers must strictly adhere to force protection health guidance and return 
to work criteria, in line with references (a) and (b).  Do not proceed until 
consulting with your detailer/AMC.
        (2) Contact the MNCC for initial notification and additional support.  
Available 24/7, by phone at 1-833-330-MNCC (6622) or email at 
askmncc@navy.mil.  Provide valid contact information and proof of positive 
test result(s) to the servicing MNCC agent.  The servicing MNCC agent will 
take appropriate action to notify the service members detailer, Navy 
Passenger Transportation Office (NAVPTO), and the OPNAV COVID Taskforce 
Liaison.
        (3) Continue communicating with your detailer and NAVPTO agent for 
orders modification (ORDMOD) and logistics support.  Upon notification from 
the MNCC, the detailer and NAVPTO agent will contact the service member to 
discuss an ORDMOD and re-book future travel.
ORDMODs will ensure per diem is available and reimbursable for qualified 
expenses incurred during the ROM period.  Service members may use the GTCC if 
issued.  Additionally, service members may request a travel advance through 
the MNCC regardless of GTCC possession.
        (4) Secure from ROM.  Once the travelers meet return to work 
requirements, in line with reference (a) and in conjunction with any medical 
provider guidance, they may continue execution of their orders after 
conferring with detailers/AMC.  Service members and detailers should be 
proactive to continue travel as soon as possible.

4.  Command Pay and Personnel Administrators (CPPA) must do the following 
before a service member detaches:
    a.  Notify service member of the testing requirement for overseas travel 
and options.  Keep a record of the service members plans for testing, to 
include the intended facility site and date.
    b.  Ensure the service member has detaching command contact information 
in case additional support is needed during an intermediate ROM status.

5.  Travelers with valid proof of COVID-19 vaccination are currently not 
exempt from the testing requirement.  Vaccinated travelers should only rely 
on molecular-based tests because they may be at higher risk of a false 
positive with an antigen test.

6.  Contact the MNCC with any questions, issues or to provide feedback at 
833-330-MNCC/6622 or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.

7.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


