ROUTINE 
R 281339Z OCT 22 MID200080400682U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 246/22 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC//N4//OCT// 
 
SUBJ//NAVY PHYSICAL SECURITY TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT// 
 
REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/14JUN19// 
REF/B/DOC/DOD/09APR07// 
REF/C/DOC/SECNAV/18SEP20// 
 
NARR/REF A IS SECNAVINST 5500.36A, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY SECURITY 
ENTERPRISE. 
REF B IS DOD 5200.08-R, PHYSICAL SECURITY PROGRAM. 
REF C IS SECNAVINST 5500.38, SECURITY PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM.// 
POC/MR. JAMES JOHNSON/OPNAV N4I3/CNO WASHINGTON DC/TEL: (703) 695- 
5516/DSN: 260-5516/EMAIL: JAMES.A.JOHNSON13.CIV@US.NAVY.MIL// 
 
RMKS/1.  Purpose.  This NAVADMIN provides interim guidance to update 
requirement, and define responsibilities associated with the development and 
sustainment of Navy physical security training and professional development 
as directed by the Vice Chief of Naval Operations in response to the Naval 
Air Station (NAS) Pensacola shooting investigation. 
 
2.  Background 
    a.  Per reference (a), Physical Security is part of that security 
concerned with physical measures designed to safeguard personnel; to prevent 
unauthorized access to equipment, installations, material, and documents; and 
to defend against espionage, sabotage, damage, and theft.  Commanding 
officers have the inherent responsibility to safeguard Navy property inside 
contiguous and non-contiguous fence lines and other disparately located Navy 
owned property.  This is accomplished through the employment of a variety of 
coordination and planning events, site-specific protective measures, and 
security-in-depth.  The proficiency and skillset of the Navy physical 
security community is critical to ensuring the corresponding physical 
security plans and equipment are documented, coordinated, and maintained. 
    b.  In accordance with reference (a), security is the responsibility of 
all DON personnel (military, civilian, and contractor) and its proper 
implementation will be directed by commanders and other leaders at each level 
of the DON.  It shall be fostered through awareness, education, training, and 
leadership.  Further, reference (b) directs Services to develop training, 
qualification, and suitability requirements for dedicated security forces 
(including contract security forces where employed, security technicians, and 
physical security specialists).  OPNAV N4, in coordination with the commands 
listed in paragraph 4 will develop and implement a standardized physical 
security training and professional development roadmap to ensure commanding 
officers have the greatest confidence in their staff and personnel are 
empowered with necessary skills to execute their task. 
 
3.  Policy 
    a.  All physical security personnel (military, civilian, and contractor) 
shall complete entry-level physical security training.  This applies to 
physical security billets by name and billets considered collateral duties 
performing physical security functions (installation and tenant level). 
    b.  Navy physical security training will include the fundamental 
knowledge for conducting surveys, security-in-depth, protection measures, 
employment of electronic security systems, security planning and cross-
functional area coordination. 
    c.  Training will be scalable and made available across various platforms 
to negate the barriers of travel restrictions or lack of travel funds. 
    d.  Developed curriculum will be reviewed and updated as needed to remain 
relevant and aligned with references (a) through (c), applicable higher 
headquarters directives and guidance, and trending threats. 
 
4.  Responsibilities 
    a.  Director, Installations Division (N4I) will: 
        (1) Serve as the Resource Sponsor and Office of Primary esponsibility 
        to provide oversight, resourcing, and develop requirements, for Navy 
physical security training and professional development. 
        (2) Review and validate programming requirements for Navy physical 
security training and professional development submitted during the Program 
Objective Memorandum (POM) cycle. 
    b.  Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC) will: 
        (1) In the role as shore integrator, establish a professional 
development program for the Navy physical security community. 
        (2) Develop a professional development roadmap (Entry, Intermediate, 
and Expert level) and associated training requirements, with guidelines for 
all military, civilian and contractor personnel occupying a physical security 
billet. 
        (3) Incorporate the Navy physical security courses developed by the 
Navy Education and Training Command (NETC)/Center for Security Forces 
(CENSECFOR) into the training requirements for personnel assigned physical 
security responsibilities. 
        (4) Coordinate with NETC/CENSECFOR and other Service counterparts for 
the analysis of training and professional development metrics and procedures 
for continual process improvement. 
    c.  Commander, Navy Education and Training Command will:  Direct the 
CENSECFOR to execute the following: 
        (1) Initiate a requirements review of references (a) through (c) and 
other applicable higher headquarters guidance and directives to include all 
available physical security course curricula (DoD, federal government, and 
private industry best practices, etc.) to acquire a comprehensive 
understanding of current training methods and innovations. 
        (b) Develop a continuum of physical security courses that are 
scalable across multiple training delivery platforms. 
        (c) Develop training materials and a process for delivering 
synchronous (certified via proctoring) and asynchronous virtual instruction 
to meet professional development requirements for Entry, Intermediate, and 
Expert level physical security specialists. 
        (d) Review and update training periodically, to remain consistent 
with higher headquarters guidance and directives. 
    d.  Commanders, Navy Component Commands and Echelon Two Commands will: 
        (1) Support development and implementation of the physical security 
training and professional development roadmap, as required. 
        (2) Ensure all personnel assigned physical security duties, per 
subparagraph 3a, adhere to the requirements of this policy. 
 
5.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy personnel assigned to 
the duties of physical security specialists (including physical security 
officers and/or managers) and charged with protecting Navy 
installation/activity assets (including afloat, expeditionary, tenant,  
off-installation and leased property/assets). 
 
6.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, CNO N4.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
