CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 162023Z SEP 24 MID120001390632U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 186/24 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC //N7// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC //N7// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N71/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2025 EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE SCHOOL MARINE AIR GROUND TASK 
FORCE OPERATIONS AFLOAT COURSE// 
 
RMKS/1. The United States Marine Corps Expeditionary Warfare School is 
seeking Navy officers to attend its Marine Air Ground Task Force Operations 
Afloat course at Quantico, Virginia, in January 2025. 
This funded 11-week course gives students a deeper understanding of modern 
amphibious warfare and sea-based expeditionary operations and their 
associated planning processes, focusing on understanding naval warfare across 
all domains.  The course offers Navy Officers of all designators 
opportunities to better understand naval integration, particularly regarding 
the Marine Corps Planning Process, embarkation, and employment of the Marine 
Air Ground Task Force. 
The Marine Air Ground Task Force Operations Afloat course is scheduled for 06 
January - 20 March 2025.  The entry deadline is Friday, 22 November 2024. 
 
2.  While at the Expeditionary Warfare School, students will participate 
alongside not only Marines but 38 Joint Officers from the U.S. Army, U.S. Air 
Force, and U.S. Space Force, as well as officers from 23 partner and allied 
nations. 
    a.  The Marine Air Ground Task Force Operations Afloat course is designed 
to educate students on sea-based Marine Air Ground Task Force operations 
through the lens of maritime strategy, maneuver warfare, and Navy and Marine 
Corps integration. The course educates and trains students in a range of 
naval expeditionary operations while applying the Marine Corps Planning 
Process. 
    b.  The Marine Air Ground Task Force Operations Afloat course comprises 
four sub-courses: Maritime Expeditionary Environment, Littoral Operations and 
Concepts, Amphibious Operations, and Amphibious Planning Exercises. 
    c.  The Marine Air Ground Task Force Operations Afloat Course Learning 
Outcomes are: 
        (1)  Understand the Naval service's organization and how it conducts 
operations across the competition continuum within the maritime expeditionary 
environment. 
        (2)  Understand the Marine Corps' role in supporting naval operations 
and complexities associated with enabling joint operations. 
        (3)  Understand the capabilities of the Amphibious Ready Group/Marine 
Expeditionary Unit. 
(4)  Apply Navy and Marine Corps doctrine, maneuver warfare philosophy, and 
the Marine Corps Planning Process to solve complex problems in contested 
maritime terrain. 
        (5).  Apply naval and joint doctrine to develop a combined arms, 
multi-domain tactical plan for a sea-based Marine Air Ground Task Force. 
    d.  The Marine Air Ground Task Force Operations Afloat block is taught in 
residence at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia, by Marine, Navy, and Army 
instructors.  The school utilizes lectures, seminar discussions, and 
deliberate planning practical exercises. 
 
3.  Eligibility.  The course is open to active duty officers in the paygrades 
of WO-1 to CWO-3 and O-2 to O-4 in all designators. 
Preference will be given to Unrestricted Line designators and members of the 
Medical Service Corps. 
 
4.  Administration and Logistics. 
    a.  Application.  Officers desiring to attend the course can reserve a 
class seat by submitting the following documents: 
    (1)  Special request chit endorsed by Commanding Officer requesting to 
attend. 
        (2)  Service member biography to include education and military 
experience. 
(3)  Submit the documents listed above to the point of contact email address 
in paragraph 5.a.2 below. 
(4)  Upon graduation, students will receive the BX1 Additional Qualification 
Designator and a graduation certificate. 
    b.  Logistics. 
        (1)  TAD Travel.  Marine Corps University will fund travel, lodging, 
car rental, and per diem via the Defense Travel Service. 
Creating a travel authorization in DTS is the traveler's responsibility, 
however, the Expeditionary Warfare School S-1 is available to assist as 
needed.  Coordination will be made with Expeditionary Warfare School S-1 via 
POCs listed in section 5a. 
(2)  Berthing.  Expeditionary Warfare School S-1 will coordinate with 
attendees for lodging.  If on-base government lodging is unavailable, 
Expeditionary Warfare School S-1 will coordinate with attendees to obtain a 
Certificate of Non-Availability (CNA) before making other lodging 
arrangements.  If a CNA is issued, attendees must book commercial lodging 
through the Defense Travel System. 
(3)  Transportation.  When arranging air transportation, attendees must 
choose the most cost-effective General Services Administration City Pair 
Fare.  Travel shall be completed to check-in no later than 0800 on 06 January 
2025 with Expeditionary Warfare School S-1 at Geiger Hall.  Return travel 
will be no earlier than 20 March 2025.  Documented approval by the TAD 
authorizing official is required. 
 
5.  Officers interested in the Expeditionary Warfare School course may visit 
the Marine Corps University web pages at https://www.usmcu.edu/. 
    a.  Points of Contact: 
(1)  Travel and funding: Capt Troy McCool (Primary, Expeditionary Warfare 
School S-1), 703-784-2592, troy.mccool@usmcu.edu. 
(2).  Course related questions: LT Matthew Esper (Expeditionary Warfare 
School Senior Navy Instructor), 703-432-1321, matthe w.esper@usmcu.edu. 
(3).  Deputy Director Expeditionary Warfare School: 
LtCol Steven Valenti, 703-784-1843, steven.valenti@usmcu.edu. 
 
6.  Released by VADM D.W. Dwyer, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans, Strategy, and Warfighting Development (N3/N5/N7). 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
