CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 191556Z MAY 22 MID200001723522U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 116/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2023 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER 
COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance 
for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) 
Commissioning Program.  Due to the Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) 
pandemic, an exception to policy for the Scholastic Aptitude Test 
(SAT) and American College Test (ACT) application requirement has 
been approved for those stationed outside the United States at any 
time between April 2021 and April 2022 or those who were deployed at 
any time between April 2021 and April 2022 as detailed in paragraph 
 
7h.  Additionally, the SAT and ACT application requirement is waived 
for STA-21 Nuclear option (STA-21(N)) applicants.  Supplemental 
information for applicant submission is provided in paragraphs 7g 
and 7h of this NAVADMIN. 
 
2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning 
program open to enlisted personnel of all paygrades and ratings who 
meet the eligibility requirements specified in reference (a). 
 
3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-23 STA-21 
Commissioning Program is 1 July 2022.  Application packages must be 
postmarked (if mailed) or submitted electronically on or before the 
deadline date.  For electronic submissions, Department of Defense 
Secure Access File Exchange (DODSAFE) is the preferred method of 
delivery.  It is recommended that applications be submitted prior to 
the deadline as early submission allows timely feedback to the 
Sailor for submission of missing or illegible documents.  Deadline 
for submission of additional documentation to an applicants package 
is 1 August 2022.  No additional documents can be submitted after 
this date.  The selection board is scheduled to convene between late 
August and early September 2022 and the approved list of selectees 
will be announced via a NAVADMIN. 
 
4.  The following target options are open for application for the 
FY-23 selection board:  Surface Warfare Officer (SWO), Surface 
Warfare Engineering Duty Option, Nuclear (Surface/Sub), Special 
Warfare, Explosive Ordnance Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, Aviator 
Pilot, Civil Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps and Information 
Professional. 
 
5.  The following target options have zero select opportunity for 
FY-23:  Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical 
Corps, Supply Corps, Surface Warfare Officer Information 
Professional Option, Oceanography Officer (OCEANO) and SWO/OCEANO. 
 
6.  The Nuclear (Surface/SUB) target option is now open to Sailors 
who are serving in the Fleet and hold an active nuclear Navy 
enlisted classification (NEC) (N1XO, N1XS, N2XO, N2XS) and to those 
Sailors who are in the nuclear training pipeline with the N91T NEC. 
Applicants holding a nuclear NEC must receive a conditional release 
from the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D), in line 
with reference (b), if applying for an option outside the nuclear 
community.  All applicants for STA-21(N) must be able to begin their 
first day of class in the first semester of their course work prior 
to commencing their eighth year of service.  See the STA-21(N) 
Program Authorization (PA 150A) dated May 2019 for more specific 
information and all other requirements to apply for the STA-21(N) 
Program.  Additional information applicable to this years STA-21(N) 
application is as follows: 
    a.  If a physical fitness assessment (PFA) was not performed 
within the last year, a commanding officers (CO) statement in the 
endorsement is required to ensure the applicant is within height and 
weight requirements as required by paragraph 7g. 
    b.  SAT/ACT scores are not required to submit an application in 
line with paragraph 7h.  Candidates are advised to verify school 
admission requirements, as the STA-21(N) SAT/ACT waiver does not 
supersede university SAT/ACT admission requirements. 
    c.  The Sailor/Marine American Council on Education Registry 
Transcript (SMART), in line with reference (a), enclosure (1), 
chapter 8, paragraph 6b(9) is not required to be submitted for this 
application.  A future revision of reference (a) will remove the 
SMART transcript requirement. 
    d.  The applicants photograph, in line with reference (a), 
enclosure (1), chapter 8, paragraph 6b(10) is not required to be 
submitted for this application.  A future revision of reference (a) 
will remove this requirement. 
 
7.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the FY- 
22 STA-21 selection process and board.  This information is provided 
to preclude common errors: 
    a.  Of the 429 applications received for FY-22, only 394 were 
board eligible.  A total of 55 were selected to participate in the 
FY-22 STA-21 Program. 
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying 
SAT/ACT test scores, missing COs endorsement/recommendation, recent 
non-judicial punishment, missing PFA cycle scores, missing or 
illegible submission of documents and not meeting specific program 
age or PFA requirements. 
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before 
submitting an application.  Applications should be mailed or 
preferably sent electronically via DODSAFE only when fully 
completed.  Officer interview boards shall consist of three 
officers.  The applicants CO may not be a board member and should 
not submit an interview appraisal sheet.  The COs personal interview 
should be conducted only after the application is complete and the 
officer interview board has submitted their appraisals.  The full 
picture of an applicants academic and officer potential can only be 
determined by reviewing the SAT/ACT scores, high school/college 
transcripts and a completed application package. 
    d.  The COs endorsement is extremely important, especially the 
ranking of the individual among their peers.  The endorsement should 
contain specifics about the individuals academic potential, 
commitment, leadership, service above self and potential as a naval 
officer.  CO comments should specify the primary option to which the 
individual is applying and address how the individual meets 
qualifications for that option.  For junior Sailors with only 
schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in their 
endorsement. 
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board shall be 
conducted in line with reference (a).  It is recommended that 
officers of the applicants designator of choice, if available, be 
asked to participate in the interview/nomination review board to 
assess the applicant for their community.  Interviews conducted 
virtually such as telephone or video conferencing (such as Skype, 
Zoom or other means) are acceptable.  Officer appraisals provide 
important insight on the applicant.  The appraisal from the board 
should be a frank and honest assessment of the applicants leadership 
and academic potential.  Appraisal forms should be typed in 10 or 12 
point font. 
    f.  The applicants personal statement should address why the 
Sailor wants to become an officer, how the Sailors selection would 
improve the Navy and why the Sailor is applying for a specific 
option.  Sailors must also address any hardships or unique 
experiences that shaped their character.  Junior Sailors should 
provide information on high school experiences as high school 
transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in 
sports, clubs, volunteer hours, work and other extracurricular 
activities.  Applicants should additionally address any anomalies in 
the package (examples include, but are not limited to:  poor high 
school, college, or service school grades and any poor evaluation 
performance).  The explanation should include details of the 
situation, how the applicant has overcome these issues, lessons 
learned and why the applicant will be successful in the future. 
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant. 
Applicants must review their packages in their entirety before 
submitting, to include misspelled words and improper grammar.  All 
transcripts (high school, colleges and service schools) should be 
included.  Applicants must submit results from the last PFA 
completed, including their overall score. 
    h.  Qualifying SAT/ACT scores are required.  Applications can 
still be submitted pending receipt of SAT/ACT scores or with a 
command statement indicating non-availability for overseas locations 
and deployed units.  SAT/ACT scores can be from exams taken between 
1 July 2017 and 1 July 2022 (five years - an exception to policy has 
been approved for FY-23 extending SAT/ACT validity window specified 
in reference (b) from three to five years).  Applicants without a 
SAT/ACT score and who meet the SAT/ACT exception to policy criteria 
of having either been stationed outside the United States at any 
time between April 2021 and April 2022 or deployed at any time 
between April 2021 and April 2022 should ensure their high school 
cumulative grade point average (minimum 2.5 grade point average 
(GPA)) is within the last five years or have a minimum 2.5 
cumulative college GPA on a 4.0 scale with 12 or more semester 
hours. 
    i.  It is recommended that the command retain a copy of the 
entire application package.  The command portion of the application 
(such as command endorsement and interview appraisal sheets) should 
not be provided to the applicant. 
 
8.  The preferred method of delivery for applications is through 
DODSAFE to the following e-mail address:  GRLK_STA21(at)navy.mil. 
Members should ensure they e-mail the encrypted passphrase to the 
same GRLK_STA21(at)navy.mil account.  Applications may also be 
mailed to: 
    Naval Service Training Command 
    Attn:  N92/STA-21 
    2601A Paul Jones Street Building 1 
    Great Lakes, IL 60088-2845 
 
9.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, 
application requirements and selection procedures, please refer to 
reference (a), contact your command career counselor or visit the 
STA-21 website at: https://www.netc.navy.mil/Commands/Naval-Service-Training-
Command/STA-21 for the most up-to-date information. 
 
10.  Points of contact: 
    a.  Naval Service Training Command, STA-21 Program Office, at 
(847) 688-5454, extension 243 (DSN 792) or e-mail at GRLK_STA21(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D), at (703) 604-5491 
(DSN 664) or e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil. 
 
11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
