CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 221631Z NOV 22 MID200080490292U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 261/22

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV//

SUBJ/SENIOR ENLISTED MARKETPLACE - E-9 BILLET BASED ADVANCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/020722//

REF/B/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/110718//

REF/C/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/050818//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G CH-1, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED 
PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS MILPERSMAN 1306-
1700, AVAILABILITY PROCESSING - GENERAL INFORMATION.
REF C IS MILPERSMAN 1160-120, HIGH YEAR TENURE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Navy*s new Senior Enlisted Marketplace 
(SEM) for Active Component (AC) Sailor advancement to master chief.  This is 
the first phase in a process that will ultimately include all chief petty 
officers and is a fundamental change in how the Navy advances senior enlisted 
leaders.  In this first phase, all eligible E-8s, with the exception of those 
listed in paragraph 2, will be screened (not selected) by an E-9 board.
Those who successfully screen will not be automatically advanced, but will be 
given the opportunity to apply for an E-9 position.  To advance to E-9, 
successfully screened E-8s must be matched to an E-9 position via MyNavy 
Assignment (MNA), obligate to serve the prescribed tour length, complete any 
in-route training, and actually report to the E-9 billet.  In line with 
reference (a), candidates must have their commanding officer*s recommendation 
to advance and must meet normal time in rate requirements.

2.  This NAVADMIN does not apply to the Command Senior Enlisted Leader 
Program, Submarine Force, Surface Nuclear, Musician, Naval Special Warfare 
(SO and SB), or Reserve Component Sailors.  Sailors in these communities will 
continue to be advanced and detailed via legacy processes.

3.  Screening board.  The SEM E-9 screening board will operate in the same 
manner as the legacy E-9 selection board, with the exception that it will 
provide a list of E-8s eligible to apply for
E-9 positions and will identify up to the top 15% of screened E-8s as merit 
screened.  Following the SEM E-9 screening board, a NAVADMIN will announce 
the results with a full listing of those screened and will indicate those 
that are merit screened with an asterisk next to their names.
    a.  Merit screened Sailors are those E-8s whose records contain 
documented sustained performance consistently superior to the performance of 
other Sailors screened for advancement by the board.
Merit screened Sailors will be given numerical advantage in the Sailor 
scoring criteria used to determine E-9 assignments (described
below) and will receive *concierge detailing*.  Specifically, merit screened 
Sailors will be contacted by their detailer if they are not being recommended 
for selection to one of their top two E-9 job preferences during an MNA 
cycle.  In this conversation, merit screened Sailors may (1) agree to a lower 
preference E-9 assignment,
(2) agree to another E-9 assignment not previously on their list of 
preferences, or (3) turn down lower priority orders in order to participate 
in future MNA cycles within their 24 months of eligibility.

4.  Marketplace.  Beginning with the August 2023 MNA cycle, both current E-9s 
in their detailing window and those E-8s successfully screened at the SEM E-9 
screening board will be able to apply and compete for E-9 jobs.  Current E-9s 
will continue to enter the SEM based on existing MNA business rules.  All 
screened E-8s may enter the SEM to apply for an E-9 position during an MNA 
cycle within the first 24 months following the announcing NAVADMIN.  Screened 
E-8s outside of the normal projected rotation date (PRD) window will have 
their PRDs manually adjusted by PERS-4 to allow access to MNA in line with 
para 4.a below, but will not transfer before completing a minimum of 12 
months onboard their current command.
    a.  MNA cycles.  Between May and July of each year, screened E- 8s will 
not be allowed to participate in the MNA marketplace as
PERS-8 conducts retention and advancement eligibility reviews for newly 
screened E-8s and those remaining screened E-8s who were not matched to an E-
9 position in the first year of their eligibility.
Because there are five MNA cycles per year that are outside of the May to 
July window (August, October, December, February and April), each screened E-
8 will have any of ten MNA cycles to be matched to an E-9 assignment during 
their 24 months of eligibility. If not aligned to an E-9 assignment after 24 
months (10 MNA cycles), the member will lose their screened status and be 
detailed as an E-8 at their PRD per current detailing policies.  In such a 
case, the member will be reconsidered at the next E-9 screening board if they 
continue to meet all eligibility requirements.
    b.  Sailor Scoring Criteria.  The SEM is competitive.  As such, current 
E-9s and screened E-8s will be evaluated utilizing weighted elements from a 
paygrade specific Sailor Scoring Criteria (SSC) to compare Sailor attributes 
in light of job requirements to determine who is recommended for each 
available job.  For each job, detailers will use the SSC to select the 
highest ranked eligible Sailor, with any exceptions approved by PERS-4.  Once 
matched to a billet requirement, current E-9s and screened E-8s are required 
to obligate service for the prescribed tour length set forth in their PCS 
orders prior to detaching from their current command.  The SSC will be 
available on the Detailing Marketplace website:
(https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Detailing/Enlisted/Detailing-Marketplace/) by 30 November 2022.
    c.  There are three marketplace outcomes that can occur for screened E-
8s:
        (1) Matched to an E-9 position:  After passing all required 
screenings and obligating service for the prescribed tour length, the member 
can be frocked as early as 30 days prior to transfer and will permanently 
advance to E-9 upon reporting to the E-9 billet following completion of any 
required schools.  To ensure that Sailor outcomes are aligned with SEM 
orders/obligations, there will be no type commander manning actions (such as 
cross-decks, diverts or temporary additional duty) for Sailors assigned via 
the SEM unless deemed absolutely essential by the applicable Fleet N1.
       (2) Choose another E-8 assignment:  Sailors within their PRD window 
who choose to be matched to another E-8 position will lose their screened 
status at that point, but will be reconsidered by the next SEM E-9 screening 
board if they retain all eligibility requirements.
       (3) Not matched to a follow-on position during the first year:  Upon 
passing the PERS-8 performance eligibility review (May- June), these Sailors 
will maintain their screened status (including Merit Screened status if 
applicable) for an additional year and will be automatically added to the 
next SEM E-9 screening board announcement NAVADMIN (in a separate section).  
These Sailors may then participate in the following August through April MNA 
cycles, but may need to request a PRD shift with PERS-4, via NAVPERS 1306/7, 
Electronic Personnel Action Request.
    d.  Exceptions and limitations:
        (1) If a Sailor is unable to report to their E-9 assignment, the 
Sailor*s command must contact PERS-4 immediately, and if applicable, make the 
Sailor *unavailable* to their detailer as prescribed in reference (b).  Once 
the Sailor*s status is resolved, the Sailor can continue tracking to the 
original E-9 assignment, if available.  If the original assignment is no 
longer available, the Sailor and their command must work with the detailer to 
determine a course of action for follow-on E-9 assignment.  Otherwise, the 
Sailor will enter the E-8 marketplace per current detailing policies.
        (2) E-8 Sailors who are already under orders to an E-8 billet when 
the SEM screening message is released will normally execute those orders and 
serve at least one year at the gaining command. In all other cases, the 
screened E-8 will normally enter the E-9 SEM.
        (3) Special and Incentive Pays.  Screened E-8s receiving Special Duty 
Incentive Pay (SDIP) will continue to receive it if they continue to serve in 
an SDIP eligible billet upon advancement to E-9.  If not yet receiving SDIP 
when advanced to E-9, Sailors are not eligible to start SDIP until completion 
of their service obligation for the E-9 position.
        (4) High Year Tenure (HYT).  E-8 Sailors approaching their HYT length 
of service (LOS) gate remain advancement eligible unless precluded by policy 
contained in references (a) and (c).  Screened E-8s who actively participate 
in the marketplace, will have their HYT LOS gate suspended, as applicable, 
but not to exceed 24 months, unless otherwise waived in line with reference 
(c).
        (5) Advancement Recommendation.  As with other enlisted advancement 
programs, advancement via the SEM process is conditional on the commanding 
officer*s recommendation for advancement.

5.  Additional details will be posted on the Detailing Marketplace website 
(https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Detailing/Enlisted/Detailing-Marketplace/).

6.  Point of contact:  MyNavy Career Center: askmncc(at)navy.mil or 1-833-
330-MNCC (6622).

7.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

8.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

