UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 032009Z JAN 20 MID110000283886U
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 02-20

SUBJ/2020 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/20DEC19/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/16DEC19//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//
REF/D/DOC/CHINFO/SEP19/-//NOTAL//
NARR/ Ref A is ATSD(PA) memo, DoD FY20 Public Affairs Community Engagement
Plan.  
Ref B is OPNAVINST 5726.8BC Outreach: Americas Navy.  
Ref C is NAVADMIN 148/16 announcing the American Connections program.  
Ref D is CHINFO engagement strategy, At the Helm.//
POC/Rob Newell/Civ/CHINFO/LOC: WASHINGTON, DC/TEL: (703) 614-1879/
EMAIL: ROBERT.D.NEWELL1(AT)NAVY.MIL//

1.  In support of references (a) thru (d), this NAVADMIN issues 
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community Outreach
Program for 2020.

2.  Reference (a) specifies community outreach as a DoD priority and 
authorizes the services to continue their community outreach programs in a 
sustainable, fiscally responsible manner in 2020.

3.  National Surveys continue to highlight the need for a robust Navy
Community Outreach Program.
    a.  Key indicators such as favorability and likelihood to recommend have 
trended down during the past eight years.
        (1) In 2011, eighty-two percent of the country viewed the Navy 
favorably, but in 2019, that number fell to seventy-seven percent.  For the 
first time in a decade, we are seeing numbers lower than eighty percent.
        (2) In 2011, fifty-seven percent of Americans said they would 
recommend serving in the Navy to a son or daughter.  This year that number 
dropped to forty-nine percent.
    b.  Surveys conducted at various community outreach programs around the 
country indicate their impact on helping us to fight these downward trends.
        (1) Ninety-two percent of those who attended Port Everglades and
Seattle Fleet Week events this year said they learned a lot about the U.S.
Navy from the experience.
        (2) Seventy percent said the experience made them view the Navy more 
favorably and another forty percent say it made them even more likely to 
recommend serving in the Navy to a son or daughter.
        (3) Thirty-five percent said the experience compelled them to share 
their experience with others and go on-line to learn more.
        (4) Surveys from Navy Weeks, Port Visits and Air Shows show similar 
results.
     c. Results from recent surveys have also indicated an increase in the 
awareness and importance of the Navy from the American public due to 
aggressive community outreach.
        (1) In 2011, only forty-one percent of Americans said they knew 
either some or a lot about the Navy.  That number has increased to fifty-four 
percent today.
        (2) In 2009, only twelve percent of the country considered the Navy 
as the most important service to our countrys National Defense.  Today, that 
number has risen to twenty-one percent, still behind the Air Force
(thirty-five percent) and the Army (twenty-five percent).  Our goal for 2020 
is to push this number above twenty-three percent.

4.  Per ref (a), the following outreach programs are authorized for Calendar
Year 2020 (CY20):
    a.  Eight Fleet Weeks:  Port Everglades, Fla.; Baltimore, Md.; New York,
N.Y.; Norfolk, Va.; Portland, Ore.; Los Angeles, Calif.; San Francisco,
Calif.; San Diego, CA; and Seattle, Wash.  Tasking and responsibilities for 
these events will be provided SEPCOR by cognizant operational and regional 
commanders.  As always,  Fleet Week support is subject to operational 
availability.
    b.  12 Navy Weeks:  Tucson, Ariz. (Feb. 17-23); Tri-Cities, Tenn.
(March 30-April 5); Abilene, Texas (May 4-10); Trenton, N.J. (May 11-17);
Dayton, Ohio (June 22-28); Madison, Wis. (July 13-19); Seattle,
Wash. (July 27-Aug. 2), Portland, Maine (Aug. 10-16); Salt Lake City,
Utah (Sept. 14-20); Tulsa, Okla. (Oct. 5-11); Montgomery, Ala. (Oct. 12-18);
Santa Fe, N.M. (Nov. 2-8); Per reference (b), the Navy Week program is a 
community outreach requirement, led by the Navy Office of Community Outreach
(NAVCO), and is specifically designed to provide Americans around the country 
with the opportunity to personally connect with their Navy.   As such, the 
following commands and activities will support the 2020 Navy Week campaign to 
the maximum extent operational schedules will allow:
        (1) Depending on market size, each Navy Week will have one or two
Flag Officers or Senior Executive Service (SES) civilians participating as 
senior Navy executive representatives.  In coordination with Flag/SES PA and 
personal staffs, NAVCO will develop an itinerary comprising high-level 
outreach engagements with key influencers from all sectors of the Navy Week 
market for participating senior Navy executives.
        (2) Naval Special Warfare Command and Commander, Navy Recruiting
Command (CNRC) will make the Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) available 
depending on venues and opportunities. The SEAL/SWCC Scout Team is also 
requested to participate where mission equities and Navy Weeks intersect.
        (3) Navy Expeditionary Combat Command will make expeditionary units
(divers, EOD teams, Riverine, Seabees) and their equipment available.
        (4) TYCOMs will support with Sailors assigned to ships, squadrons and 
submarines with namesake city or state ties. For cities where more than one 
namesake unit has a relationship, NAVCO will coordinate with TYCOMs to 
determine the most feasible assignment.
        (5) Commander, Naval Air Forces (AIRFOR) and Commander, Naval Air
Force Reserve (AIRFORRES) will support with aircraft and aircrew 
participation.
        (6) Commander, Navy Reserve Force will support with Navy Operational
Support Center (NOSC) Sailors and other resources as coordinated with NAVCO
Navy Week planning leads.
        (7) Bureau of Medicine and Surgery (BUMED) will support with Navy 
medical professionals, equipment and displays as appropriate.
        (8) Office of Naval Research will participate with personnel and 
assets participating in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics
(STEM) events.
        (9) U.S. Navy Band and Fleet Band Activities will support with 
regional bands and premiere bands when appropriate.
        (10) Naval Education and Training Command (NETC) and Naval Service
Training Command (NSTC) will support with participation from NROTC units.
        (11) USS CONSTITUTION will support with Sailors, equipment and 
displays.
        (12) CNRC will support with Navy Recruiting District (NRD), Navy
Talent Acquisition Group (NTAG) and Navy Recruiting Station Sailors and 
recruiting properties, simulators and other equipment as appropriate.
        (13) Navy commands and units within a reasonable distance of Navy
Week cities will support with hometown Sailors, other personnel and 
equipment, as coordinated with Navy Week planning teams.
        (14) Blue Angels performances will provide the foundational event for
Navy Weeks in Abilene, Texas; Trenton, N.J.; Dayton, Ohio; Seattle, Wash.; 
and Portland, Maine.  Within existing guidelines, regulations and mission 
priorities, the team will integrate its outreach event schedule and effort 
with the Navy Week program to the maximum extent possible.
        (15) Naval History and Heritage Command will support with speakers 
and displays.
        (16) Navy Ceremonial Guard will support with its drill team.
        (17) Department of the Navy Office of Small Business Programs (OSBP) 
will provide detailed statistics for each market and will provide 
representatives to attend and speak at multiple small business events in 
conjunction with Navy Weeks as a part of our efforts to provide the highest 
quality of support to small business owners and entrepreneurs.
        (18) Navy Meteorological and Oceanography Command (METOC) will 
support with personnel, equipment and displays.
        (19) The U.S. Naval Academy will support with personnel, displays and 
presentations, in addition to isolated admissions events when possible.
        (20) Navy Recruiting Command (CNRC) STEM Tour Navy Partnership will 
consider feasible Navy Weeks for their Nimitz and Burke assets to take part 
in public or anchor events such as fairs or air shows.
        (21) Additional units or activities with outreach capability not 
listed above are encouraged and welcome to participate in the Navy Week 
program and should contact NAVCO for further guidance.
    c.  The American Connections program, announced in reference (c), will 
continue to be a prominent component of the Navy 2020 community outreach 
strategy.  Managed by NAVCO, it was established to share the Navy story with 
media across the country serving markets which generally do not receive Navy 
news and information.  In 2020, the program will include the following 
elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys small production teams to 
commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos of assigned
Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those Sailors have local 
connections.  NAVCO will conduct 20 Media Production Visits in 2020 in 
support of key Navy communication priorities and programs. In accordance with 
Ref (b), commands are required to, support media production visits from 
NAVCO.  Every effort should be made to assist and accommodate these visits, 
and steps should be taken to maximize participation (40-60 Sailors/day).  
Expected locations for 2020 include:

            (a) Surface Readiness (Everett, Mayport, Newport, Norfolk,
San Diego)
            (b) Aviation Modernization (China Lake, Fallon, Jacksonville,
Lemoore)
            (c) Undersea Warfare (Groton, ICEX, Pearl Harbor)
            (d) Strategic Deterrence/Ohio Replacement (Bangor)
            (e) Forward Deployed Naval Forces (Guam, Rota, Sasebo, Yokosuka)
            (f) People: Our Greatest Resource (DC Ceremonial Guard)
            (g) Humanitarian Assistance (Port Hueneme)
            (h) Cyber (Fort Meade)

        (2) Media advisory service.  NAVCO notifies local media when Sailors 
are promoted, receive an award, earn a warfare qualification, complete a 
deployment or achieve other recognition.  Sailors may submit material for 
this service by e-mailing navyoutreach@navy.mil.
        (3) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day, commands 
throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos featuring the 
professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments of Navy commands.
NAVCO provides these stories and photos to media where Sailors have local 
connections and to media with ties to namesake units. To maximize the utility 
of this program, and in accordance with Ref (b), commanding officers are 
encouraged to, "ensure all internally produced media products for public 
release include local connections for any Sailors identified in stories and 
photos."
        (4) Radio shout-out service.  A toll-free telephone service
(1-855-OUR-NAVY or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to record a short 
greeting, which is shared with local radio stations where Sailors have local 
connections.  Greetings can be submitted in conjunction with a holiday or 
observance, such as Thanksgiving, Veterans Day, etc.  Greetings can also be 
sent from Sailors, or namesake units, to offer support to their home teams 
participating in major sporting events. Those wishing to be notified of 
shout-out opportunities can e-mail navyoutreach(at)navy.mil.
    d. Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval Aviation outreach is particularly 
effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring a primary warfighting 
platform to inland markets.  The following Naval Aviation outreach activities 
are authorized in 2020:
       (1) 29 full Blue Angels performances.
       (2) 70 Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) performances.
       (3) 10 Navy-hosted air shows/open houses:  NAS Pensacola, Fla.; NAS
Oceana, Va.; NAS JRB New Orleans, La.; NAS Kingsville, Texas; NAS JRB Fort
Worth, Texas; NAS Whidbey Island, Wash.; NAF El Centro, Calif.; NWS Seal
Beach, Calif.; NB Ventura County, Calif.; NB Point Loma, Calif.  These events 
are authorized to have aerial demonstrations by aviation assets organic to 
the installation.
       (4) 42 TACAIRDEMO performances/Legacy Flights at Chief of Information
(CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not performing.
       (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows and other 
events.
       (6) 50 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by CHINFO), 
equally divided between East and West Coast aviation assets, at
CHINFO-authorized events.  Sporting events are permitted one regular season 
and one post-season flyover at home games or matches, unless otherwise 
approved by CHINFO. Requests are submitted to NAVCO using DD Form 2535, 
reviewed by the Aviation Outreach Working Group (AOWG) consisting of 
representatives from CNAL, CNAP, NAVCO and CHINFO, before being forwarded up 
to CHINFO for final approval.
       (7) Aviation outreach support which falls into the following 
categories is not subject to limits specified in reference (a):
           (a) Military services retain operational authority over support 
for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not considered community 
outreach events.
           (b) Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended primarily 
for an internal audience are not considered outreach events and may be 
conducted with TYCOM approval.  This includes U.S. Naval Academy events.
           (c) Aviation outreach support, to include flyovers, at
CHINFO-authorized events in the local area are permitted when it is deemed by 
the local or regional commander to be in the interest of maintaining good 
relations with key community partners and organizations.
    e.  Continental United States port visits.  From an outreach perspective, 
there is no more effective means to showcase the Navy's capabilities and its 
talented Sailors than allowing Americans to visit a ship or submarine.  As 
such, a maximum of 16 port visits for outreach have been approved during 
2020.
The following CONUS port visits are currently scheduled:
        (1) East Coast (10):  New Orleans LA; Mobile AL; Charleston SC;
Annapolis MD; Bristol RI; Boston MA (2); Eastport ME; Rockland ME and
Portland ME.
        (2) West Coast (6):  Seattle, Wash.; San Francisco, Calif.;
Los Angeles, Calif.; Long Beach, Calif.; Malibu, Calif.; Monterey, Calif.
        (3) Other port visits conducted primarily for training or operational 
purposes are not subject to limits specified in reference (a).
        (4) Per reference (b), the following elements should be incorporated 
into every outreach port visit SOE:
            (a) Media day (pierside press availability and a shipboard tour).
            (b) Very important person (VIP) reception.
            (c) VIP tours for local civic and community leaders.
            (d) The maximum amount of public visitation possible to the 
extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
            (e) Two or more community relations projects, such as beach 
clean-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with appropriate media 
coverage.
    f.  Civic and Executive Outreach.  Reference (b) approves dedicated 
outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic and executive 
outreach.
        (1) 25 Executive Outreach Visits.  NAVCO administers the Navy's
Executive Engagement Visit (EEV) program for flag officers, SES civilians and
Post-Deployment Commanding Officers for the purpose of conducting multi-day 
outreach engagements in U.S. cities. NAVCO will coordinate itineraries for 
participating Navy leaders to include engagements with corporate executives, 
government officials, education leaders, civic groups, veterans organizations 
and media. As an extension of the EEV program, NAVCO will also be conducting 
outreach engagement visits for post-deployment commanding officers.
        (2) Proposed 2020 EEV cities are: Mobile, Ala.; Quad Cities, Iowa;
Boise, Idaho.; Charleston, S.C.; Wilmington, N.C.; Oklahoma City, Okla.;
Nashville, Tenn.; Grand Junction, Colo.; St. Louis, Mo.; Wichita, Kan.;
Charleston, W.V.; Helena, Mont.; Kansas City, Kan.; Wilmington, Del.;
Montpelier, Vt.; Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; Denver, Colo.; Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Columbus, Ohio; Buffalo, N.Y.; Louisville, Ky.; and Indianapolis, Ind.
Other cities to which a flag officer, SES civilian or Post-Deployment CO has 
a significant tie may be considered in lieu of cities mentioned previously.
        (3)  Per reference (b), travel by flag officers, SES civilians and 
members of the command triad outside the local area to participate in 
community outreach and other representational events that demonstrably help 
achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and will be considered essential 
official business in the governments interest.
    g.  Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most effective 
means to connect Americans with their Navy is through strong and enduring 
namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the requirements specified for 
the Navy Week program referenced above, ref (a) approves visits by 
crewmembers of ships and submarines with namesake ties to their namesake city 
or state.
    h.  Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  U.S. Navy Band and
Fleet Band Activities will oversee and collect all new outreach measurement 
guidelines as detailed in reference (a). Ref (a) approves the following:
        (1) The fall, spring and summer tours for the Navy's premier bands.
        (2) Use of operational funding for regional band outreach travel and 
performances.
        (3) Participation in the International and Midwest Band and Orchestra
Clinic.
        (4) U.S. Navy Band public outreach concerts, including those outside 
the National Capital Region (NCR), and large public concerts inside the NCR.
        (5) Performances by the Navy Ceremonial Guard in parades outside of 
the National Capital Region and other miscellaneous outreach events such as 
the Super Bowl, Warrior Games, New York City Veterans Day Parade, Navy Weeks 
and similar events are also approved.
    i.  Navy Birthday and Historical Observances.  Funding is approved under 
reference (a) for commands and activities to commemorate the Navy Birthday,
Battle of Midway, events commemorating the 75th anniversary of major World
War II events and other historical observances. Commands are encouraged to 
align activities and events with the following significant anniversary dates 
in 2020:
        (1) Feb. 19: Following pre-invasion naval gunfire and aerial 
bombardment, U.S. Marines land on Iwo Jima, securing the island on March 16.
        (2) March 15: Task Force 58 forms for Battle of Okinawa.
        (3) May 7-8: The End of the Battle of the Atlantic/VE-Day
(Germany surrenders unconditionally to the Western Allies on May 7, 1945, to 
take effect the following day [May 8].  However, the last U-boat attack on
Allied shipping occurs on May 7, when U-2336 torpedoes merchantmen Avondale
Park and Sneland I.)
        (4) June 3-7: Battle of Midway
        (5) Aug. 14: The Japanese accept the terms of the Potsdam Declaration 
and agree to surrender, ending World War II. It is known as V-J Day.
        (6) Sept. 15: Inchon Landing began
        (7) Oct. 10: Classes commence at U.S. Naval School at Annapolis
        (8) Oct. 13: Navy Birthday
        (9) Dec. 19: Coxswain William Halford reaches Hawaii after a month at 
sea in a 22-foot boat. The lone survivor of five crew from the shipwrecked 
side-wheel steamer Saginaw, who set out to find relief for their shipmates 
stranded near Midway Island. For his heroic actions, he is later presented 
the Medal of Honor. (The small boat remains a part of the NHHC Artifact
Collection.)
    j.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  For activities not included in 
reference (a), use of local resources to support outreach activities in the 
local area is authorized and encouraged.  Local area is defined in Joint
Travel Regulation, Chapter 2, Article 0206.
    k.  Entertainment Media.  Support is authorized for entertainment media 
engaged in the production of the feature films Top Gun: Maverick and
Greyhound, television series (NCIS, NCIS New Orleans) and other projects as 
deemed appropriate by CHINFO.
    l.  Aircraft Carrier, ship and submarine underway embarks for 
distinguished visitors and media are authorized.

5.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require approval by 
the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.
Requests for an exception to policy must be forwarded through CHINFO.
For additional questions pertaining to this NAVADMIN and the execution of the
Navy's 2020 Community Outreach Plan, please contact Mr. Rob Newell at
(703) 614-1879.

6.  Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

