UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 151802Z JAN 21 MID200000559385U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 010/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/JAN//

SUBJ/2021-2022 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER SCHOLARSHIP RETENTION PROGRAM 
SOLICITATION//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/07JAN15//

AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.23C  GRADUATE EDUCATION.

RMKS/1.  This message announces the Department of Defense (DoD) Cyber 
Scholarship Retention Program (CySP) for Academic Year 2021/2022 nomination 
requirements and provides details for the Navy application process.  The DoD 
CySP provides professional development opportunities to current employees who 
support DoD critical cyber functions in exchange for continued service within 
the Department.

2.  The Navy encourages personnel to take advantage of the degree completion 
opportunities provided through the DoD CySP.  During a time of limited 
training resources, this program provides a viable means to fund advanced 
education for personnel who are either in a cybersecurity related position or 
are preparing for an assignment requiring advanced knowledge in the broad 
disciplines defined in paragraph 4.

3.  Navy Eligibility Requirements.  Permanent DoD civilian employees may 
apply for the associates, masters, or doctoral degree programs, (resident, 
nonresident, part-time, or distance learning (DL) programs available) (see 
limitations paragraph 4).  Active Duty and Full Time Support (FTS) military 
officers are eligible for either the bachelors, masters, or doctoral programs 
(nonresident, part-time, or DL programs only).  Active Duty and FTS enlisted 
personnel are eligible for the associates, bachelors, masters, or doctoral 
programs (nonresident, part-time, or DL programs only).  Nominated personnel 
should be high performing employees who have demonstrated the potential for 
increased responsibilities.  Nominations should fulfill specific personnel 
development requirements for both the individual nominee and the nominating 
organization.

4.  Academic Disciplines.  For participation in the CySP, qualified employees 
must pursue degrees in academic disciplines that have a concentration in 
cybersecurity.  Such disciplines include, but are not limited to:  
biometrics, computer crime investigations, computer engineering, computer 
forensics, computer programming, computer science, information science, 
information systems, system analysis, cyber defense, cyber operations, cyber 
security, cyber policy, cryptography, database administration, data 
management, data science, electrical engineering, information assurance, 
information technology acquisition, network administration and operations, 
software engineering, web security, and other similar disciplines as approved 
by the DoD Chief Information Officer (CIO).

5.  Participating Institutions.  The below is a brief description of the 
available programs but more information can be accessed via the Navy 
Information Warfare Outreach page on MilSuite at 
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-570743 (Common Access Card e-mail 
certificate login required).
    a.  Graduate and Bachelor Programs:
        (1) DoD institutions offering full-time academic programs leading to 
a masters or doctoral degree are the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) 
and the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS).  Open to DoD civilians only.
        (2) Joint Cyber Analysis Course (JCAC) Partner Program: Utilizing pre 
-established National Security Agency (NSA) agreements, graduates of the JCAC 
program may transfer credits into an approved undergraduate or graduate 
programs.  A list of institutions can be found at the MilSuite link 
identified above.  Open to officers and enlisted only (part-time and DL 
only).
    b.  Community College Program:  Community colleges designated as Centers 
of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education have been invited to 
participate in an associates degree program which offers full or part-time 
attendance options.  Individuals wishing to participate in the CySP Community 
College Program should review the potential list of institutions, which can 
be found at the MilSuite link identified above.  Not all schools listed will 
ultimately elect to participate in this program.  Therefore, it is important 
that each applicant list up to three schools.  Open to DoD civilians (full-
time, part -time, and DL options available) and enlisted (part-time and DL 
only).

6.  Program Costs.  The program will cover the cost of tuition, required 
fees, and required books.  Civilian students will continue to receive their 
salaries from their parent commands throughout their course of study.  Parent 
commands of civilian students are also responsible for all travel costs, any 
Temporary Additional Duty (TAD) costs, and any necessary position back-fill 
for individuals selected for the program.  Prospective applicants should meet 
with their parent commands to discuss all potential program costs.  This 
meeting should provide a full understanding of what is expected during their 
education experience and upon completion of their academic degree.

7.  Obligations.  Participants must maintain good standing in their degree 
programs and upon completion, continue in service as civilian employees or 
military members, or repay the costs of the program.  Pursuant to reference 
(a), military members shall serve on Active Duty in accordance with 
fulfilling designated service obligations of the Navy.  DoD civilian 
employees shall sign a continued service agreement with their parent 
organization or component that complies with 10 U.S.C. 2200, prior to 
commencement of their education, to continue service within the DoD upon 
conclusion of their education, for a period equal to three times the length 
of the education period.  If selected, students must sign a Student Code of 
Conduct Agreement, a Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) waiver 
required for release of transcripts, and other additional agreement forms as 
required.  Employees currently performing a period of obligated service will 
not be considered for the DoD CySP as the program does not allow for 
concurrent service obligations.

8.  Nomination Package Requirements.  Applicant nomination checklist is 
posted at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/docs/DOC-570743.

9.  Points of Contact.  Civilian and military personnel are to submit their 
application packages via their chain of command via encrypted e-mail by 26 
February 2021.  All civilian applications must be sent to the civilian point 
of contact listed below and all Active Duty and FTS military applications 
must be sent to the military point of contact listed below.
    a.  Civilian POC:  Mrs. Dawn Cotterell, dawn.cotterell(at)navy.mil, 703-
695-1858.
    b.  Military POC:  Mr. Mike Saunders, michael.saunders(at)navy.mil, 703-
604-6292.

10.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

