CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 111502Z SEP 23 MID120000422066U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 214/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2024-2025 SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH INDUSTRY 
ANNOUNCEMENT// 
 
REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/15MAY19// 
AMPN/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1320.1A, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH 
INDUSTRY PROGRAM.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024-2025 Secretary of 
the Navy Tours with Industry (SNTWI) program, in line with reference 
(a).  This program is a unique and non-traditional opportunity for 
exceptional Active Component and Training and Administration of the Reserves 
Sailors (E6 to O6) to work with partnering corporations.  SNTWI fellows are 
included and immersed in industry to learn and observe corporate processes 
and best practices.  Knowledge gained as a SNTWI fellow will assist in 
bringing innovative ideas and proven practices back to the Navy.  In the 
past, fellows were assigned to Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, Tesla, Deloitte, 
Verizon, FedEx, Morgan Stanley, Space X, and Lockheed Martin. 
 
2.  Application packages must be routed through the applicant's detailer and 
the respective Community Distribution Division will select candidates.   
Eligibility will be based solely on individual community needs, demands, and 
desired learning objectives.  The SNTWI application package will consist of 
Secretary of the Navy Tours with Industry Program Application (NAVPERS 
1330/4), military biography with picture, resume, learning objectives, and 
identified utilization tour approved by the first community flag officer.  An 
example of an SNTWI Package can be found at 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Fellowships/. 
 
3.  Eligibility.  Applicants must be high performing and within physical 
standards of readiness.  Applicants must be within 3 months of their 
projected rotation date by July 2024 to be eligible for participation.  Off 
cycle reporting to a company will be considered based on community needs or 
operational requirements.  Participation in the program should not negatively 
impact the career progression of the applicant.  Applicants who are within 11 
months of a career milestone or not positively endorsed by their community 
will not be considered for this program. 
 
4.  Service Obligation.  Tours are normally 10-12 months in length, depending 
on community and corporate requirements.  Selectees incur a service 
obligation for 3 times the number of months in the SNTWI program (i.e., 30-36 
months). 
 
5.  In addition to the eligibility requirements, additional restrictions 
apply: 
    a.  Selected Reservists are not eligible for this program. 
    b.  Applicants who are within 3 years of separating are not eligible for 
this program. 
    c.  Applicants who are within 3 years of statutory retirement or have 
requested retirement are not eligible for this program. 
    d.  Enlisted applicants who are not approved for reenlistment or have no 
intention of reenlisting and are within 1 year of reenlistment by July 2024 
are not eligible for this program. 
 
6.  All communities must submit the names of their selectees to the Director 
of SNTWI no later than 31 December 2023.  Names of selectees submitted after 
31 December 2023 will be considered on a case-by-case basis (i.e., awaiting 
promotion selection results). Communities are encouraged to submit alternate 
names for unfilled quotas.  Selectees will be matched with a company by 30 
April 2024. Communities are responsible for notifying selectees of acceptance 
status. 
 
7.  Notes: 
    a.  All Designators:  Contact your detailer for more information.  Quotas 
may not be filled due to manning levels. Executing orders, slating to a 
billet, or serving in a hard fill billet or one with significant training 
required could disqualify a candidate for consideration and eligibility.   
Applicants are required to contact their detailer to discuss milestones and 
performance requirements to be considered for eligibility. 
    b.  For E6-E9 Sailors:  Contact your detailer for more 
information.  Quotas may not be filled due to manning levels. 
Executing orders, slating to a billet, serving in a hard fill billet or one 
with significant training required could disqualify a candidate for 
consideration and eligibility. 
 
8.  Points of contact: 
    a.  For community specific eligibility and application questions, contact 
your detailer. 
    b.  For program questions not pertaining to application and eligibility, 
contact sntwi_support.fct@navy.mil. 
 
9.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled. 
 
10.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
