CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 171428Z JAN 25 MID180001556284U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 005/25
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/JAN//

SUBJ/THE 250TH BIRTHDAY OF THE UNITED STATES NAVY//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/27JUL23//
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 163/23 ANNOUNCING THE NAVY'S SUPPORT OF THE 250TH 
BIRTHDAY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN 2026 AND DIRECTS THE UNITED 
STATES NAVY TO CONDUCT THE SEVENTH INTERNATIONAL NAVAL REVIEW (INR) IN NEW 
YORK CITY HARBOR ON 4 JULY 2026.//

RMKS/1. America's Warfighting Navy: beginning this month, our Navy team 
launched a two-year campaign to celebrate our Navy and our Nation's 250th 
Birthday through a series of leadership outreach events, multilateral 
exercises, and community engagements. These Navy and Nation 250 activities 
will highlight the importance of our Navy to our Nation's security and 
prosperity, showcase our ability to meet our Title X mission in advancing our 
national interests in both peacetime and prevailing in times of war, and 
inspire a new generation of Americans to take up a national call to maritime 
service.

2. To do this, we will align messaging fleetwide across the many Navy and 
Nation 250 events such as our Flagship events in Philadelphia and the 
International Naval Review in New York, as well as Fleet Weeks, Navy Weeks, 
Blue Angels air shows, Navy sporting events, commissionings and christenings, 
and port calls around the world.

3. In addition to these efforts, we must lead at every level, from the deck 
plates to the Pentagon, to highlight the proud legacy of America's 
Warfighting Navy and our identity as a maritime nation.
I invite each of you to celebrate and align Navy and Nation 250 messaging 
through outreach events such as All-Hands calls, MWR events, command and 
community milestone celebrations, community outreach, Ally and partner 
engagements, local events, family days, and traditional and social media 
engagements.

4. Use the Navy and Nation 250 language in the communication strategy at our 
website: https://www.navy.mil/Navy-250/ and the messages below to align our 
communications and highlight Navy's unique commitment to national security, 
support of Allies and partners, and our unique career opportunities:
   a. 250 Years of Maritime Security
      (1) America is a maritime nation. Since before our nation's inception, 
America's Warfighting Navy has sailed the globe in defense of freedom.
      (2) The Navy's ability to control the sea and project power has kept 
conflict far from our shores.
      (3) For 250 years, America's Warfighting Navy has deterred aggression, 
defended our national security interests, and preserved our way of life.
      (4) Today, 90 percent of the global economy moves by sea, 95 percent of 
international communications transmit via undersea fiber optic cables, and in 
the U.S. alone, seaborne trade generates $5.4 trillion annually. The seas 
that we have protected for 250 years support 31 million American jobs.
   b. The United States Navy is here to preserve the peace, respond in 
crisis, and be ready to win decisively in war, if called.
      (1) From seabed to space, in cyberspace, and in the information 
environment, the Navy delivers power for peace - always postured and ready to 
fight and win as part of the Joint Force and alongside our Allies and 
partners.
      (2) Today and every day, nearly 100 ships and submarines are deployed 
and the world's most advanced naval aircraft are patrolling the skies 
worldwide.
      (3) America's Navy is flying, sailing, and operating everywhere 
international law allows so everyone else can too.
   c. Allies and Partners
      (1) America's Warfighting Navy does not operate alone. Our maritime 
services build partnerships, strengthen Alliances and partnerships, and deter 
adversaries.
      (2) We deploy our combat-ready Sailors alongside our Allies and 
partners in faraway waters, forcing our adversaries to face a persistent 
reality - a fight with America's Warfighting Navy is costly and ultimately 
unwinnable.
      (3) The Navy's strong network of maritime Allies and partners is 
essential in today's strategic environment.
   d. Our People
      (1) Service in the Navy is more than just a job, it is an adventure. It 
provides the opportunity to become the best version of ourselves and serve 
our country.
      (2) Though America's Navy operates the world's most sophisticated 
weapons systems, it is our highly skilled people - at sea and ashore - who 
give us an unmatched strategic advantage.
      (3) Our Sailors and civilians are trained and ready with the right 
skills, tools, and mindset to protect America's interests around the world - 
on, under, and above the seas.
      (4) America's Navy offers unparalleled opportunities for adventure and 
exploration. We have 51 major bases around the globe, and our Sailors have 
the chance to travel the world and experience different cultures, all while 
investing in themselves through excellent training and education.

5. Our 250th birthday, and that of our Nation, is a unique, once-in- a-
generation opportunity to demonstrate the importance of the United States 
Navy and the exceptional contributions of our active and reserve Sailors, and 
Navy civilians. Coordinate with your PAOs and get out there and tell our 
story! Use #AmericasNavy250 in your social posts, and visit 
https://www.navy.mil/Navy-250/ to learn how you can teach the Nation about 
our Navy's story! All ahead flank!

6. Released by ADM L. M. Franchetti, 33rd Chief of Naval Operations and MCPON 
J. M. Honea, 16th Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy.

BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

