

UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 121925Z JAN 21 MID200000542545U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 07/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/JAN//

SUBJ/MESSAGE TO THE JOINT FORCE//

RMKS/1.  The following message to the Joint Force was co-signed by the
Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff, Vice Chairman, and each of the Service
Chiefs.  It reads:

The American people have trusted the Armed Forces of the United States to
protect them and our Constitution for almost 250 years.  As we have done
throughout our history, the U.S. military will obey lawful orders from
civilian leadership, support civil authorities to protect lives and
property, ensure public safety in accordance with the law, and remain fully
committed to protecting and defending the Constitution of the United States
against all enemies, foreign and domestic.

The violent riot in Washington, D.C. on January 6, 2021 was a direct assault
on the U.S. Congress, the Capitol building, and our Constitutional process.
We mourn the deaths of two Capitol policemen and others connected to these
unprecedented events.

We witnessed actions inside the Capitol building that were inconsistent with
the rule of law.  The rights of freedom of speech and assembly do not give
anyone the right to resort to violence, sedition and insurrection.

As Service Members, we must embody the values and ideals of the Nation.  We
support and defend the Constitution.  Any act to disrupt the Constitutional
process is not only against our traditions, values, and oath; it is against
the law.

On January 20, 2021, in accordance with the Constitution, confirmed by the
states and the courts, and certified by Congress, President-elect Biden will
be inaugurated and will become our 46th Commander in Chief.
To our men and women deployed and at home, safeguarding our country--stay
ready, keep your eyes on the horizon, and remain focused on the mission.  We
honor your continued service in defense of every American.

2.  Admiral Gilday sends.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


