UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 131935Z SEP 21 MID600050976952U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 204/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N71/SEP// 

SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2022 EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE SCHOOL MARINE AIR GROUND TASK 
FORCE OPERATIONS AFLOAT COURSE// 

RMKS/1.  The USMC Expeditionary Warfare School (EWS) is seeking motivated 
naval officers to augment its Marine Air Ground Task Force (MAGTF) Operations 
Afloat course at Quantico, VA in January 2022. This funded 10-week course 
will give students a deeper understanding of amphibious warfare and its 
associated planning processes. EWS provides opportunities to promote and 
better understand naval integration across all warfare domains. The EWS MAGTF 
Operations Afloat course is scheduled for 10 January - 16 March 2022. 
Application deadline is Friday, 12 November 2021. Selected applicants will be 
notified by Monday,
22 November 2021.
2.  The goal of EWS is to produce junior officers for billets of greater 
leadership responsibility across the Navy, Fleet Marine Force and Joint 
Force, with emphasis on the warfighting capabilities of a MAGTF operating 
within a complex and distributed Naval expeditionary environment. EWS hosts 
more than 30 Joint Officers from the Navy, Air Force, Space Force, and Army. 
Additionally, EWS hosts 20 officers from ally and partner nations. The Marine 
Corps selects its most competitive junior officers to attend this course in 
residence, making EWS a tremendous networking opportunity to build 
relationships with the Marine Corps future leaders.
a.  The MAGTF Operations Afloat course is a 10-week block of instruction 
designed to educate EWS students on sea-based MAGTF operations through the 
lenses of naval military theory, maneuver warfare, single naval battle, and 
Amphibious Ready Group/Marine Expeditionary Unit (ARG/MEU) integration. Using 
amphibious operations doctrine and planning fundamentals, the course educates 
and trains EWS students in a range of naval expeditionary operations while 
applying the Marine Corps Planning Process (MCPP).
b.  The MAGTF Operations Afloat course comprises four sub-courses: Maritime 
Expeditionary Environment, Amphibious Doctrine and Fundamentals, the ARG/MEU, 
and Amphibious Planning Exercises. Students are divided into ARG/MEU teams in 
which Naval personnel will serve as the ARG codes N-2, N-3, etc.
c.  The MAGTF Operations Afloat block is taught in residence at Marine Corps 
Base Quantico, Virginia, by U.S. Marine Corps, Navy, and Army instructors. 
The school utilizes lectures, seminar discussions, and deliberate planning 
practical exercises. U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, and U.S. Space Force students 
from the Joint Force and international military officers from ally and 
partner nations contribute to the broader understanding of the multi-service 
requirements to fight and win in the maritime environment.
3.  The Marine Corps greatly values Navy presence in this training event. EWS 
has funding to support 20 Navy officer quotas for the resident course taught 
at Geiger Hall aboard Marine Corps Base Quantico. These officers will attend 
for the duration of the 10-week MAGTF Operations Afloat course and capstone 
exercise ANGKOR CROSS. For those unfamiliar with Marine Corps Base Quantico, 
it is situated 20 miles south of Washington DC and offers numerous of 
recreational opportunities in both the rural surroundings and urban center of 
the National Capital Region.
4.  Eligibility.  The course is open to all warfare qualified active and 
reserve component officers in the paygrades of O-2 and O-3 in all 
designators.  While all officers are encouraged to apply, EWS specifically 
desires unrestricted line officers whose previous operational experience will 
enhance the learning of the other participants.
5.  Administration and Logistics.
a.  Application. Officers desiring to attend the course must submit an 
application containing the following documents:
(1)  Commanding Officer endorsement.
(2)  Service Member Biography to include education and military experience.
(3)  A letter, in naval letter format, explaining why you would like to 
attend the course.
(4)  Submit your application with the documents listed above to the EWS 
Registrar email address in paragraph 6c below.
b.  Logistics.
(1)  TAD Travel. Marine Corps University (MCU) will fund travel, lodging, and 
per diem. Coordination will be made with EWS S-1/MCU G-1 via POCs listed in 
section 6a. Local travel will not be funded.
(2)  Berthing. Authorized Government lodging facility is Liversedge Hall 
(703) 784-3149, located on Marine Corps Base Quantico. Attendees must contact 
Liversedge Hall to inquire about lodging prior to making reservations 
elsewhere. If Liversedge cannot accommodate your reservation, you must obtain 
a Certificate of Non-Availability (CNA) (from Liversedge Hall) prior to 
making other lodging arrangements. If a CNA is issued, attendees are directed 
to book commercial lodging through Defense Travel System (DTS).
(3)  Transportation.  When arranging air transportation, attendees must 
choose the most cost effective General Services Administration City Pair 
Fare. Travel shall be completed to check-in no later than 0800 on 10 January 
2021 with EWS S
-1 at Geiger Hall. Return travel will be no earlier than 16 March 2022. 
Rental cars are not authorized unless mission required or the most cost 
efficient means of transportation. Documented approval by the TAD authorizing 
official is required.
6.  Officers interested in the EWS course may visit the Marine Corps 
University web pages at https://www.usmcu.edu/EWS/.
a. Points of Contact:
(1) Travel and funding: Capt Brian Perez (MCU G-1), 703-432-4632 or Capt 
Matthew Bryan (EWS S-1), 703-784-2592.
(2) Course related questions: LCDR James Lambert (EWS Naval Officer), 703-432 
-1321, jim.lambert@usmcu.edu
(3) Registrar: LtCol Christopher Upton, Deputy Director Expeditionary Warfare 
School, 703-784-1843, christopher.upton@usmcu.edu 7.  Released by VADM J. W. 
Hughes, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Warfighting Development, N7, 
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations.// BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
