UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 091441Z JUN 21 MID600050669609U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 121/21 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO/N7/JUN// 
 
SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2021-2022 LOW-RESIDENCY GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAM// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV INSTRUCTION 1520.23C-CH3// 
REF/B/DOC/DOD INSTRUCTION 1322.10// 
REF/C/DOC/DON MEMORANDUM OF 20MAY21// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVY DIRECTIVE ON GRADUATE EDUCATION.  
REF B IS DOD INSTRUCTION 
1322.10, POLICY ON GRADUATE EDUCATION FOR MILITARY OFFICERS.  
REF C IS DON MEMORANDUM DATED 20MAY21 WHICH AUTHORIZES AY 21-22 LGEP 
EXECUTION// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Low-Residency Graduate Education Program 
(LGEP) Academic Year (AY) 2021-2022 and provides guidance for applications. 
 
2.  Background: 
a. LGEP provides naval officers in paygrades O-2 to O-5 with a Navy-funded 
graduate degree opportunity in strategy, management and international 
relations through a low-residency delivery model at selected regionally 
accredited partner universities or colleges. 
b. The LGEP pilot program will offer studies that are designed to fit into 
shore duty tours, allowing officers with compressed career paths to stay 
close to the waterfront or flight line while earning a Master's degree. LGEP 
study programs range from 16-24 months at partner universities that may 
include Old Dominion University (Master of Arts in International Studies with 
a Concentration in Strategic Leadership), William and Mary (Executive Masters 
of Business Administration), American University (Master of Science in 
Management with a Concentration in Strategy and Security), Johns Hopkins 
University (Master of Arts in Global Policy), University of California San 
Diego (Master of Advanced Studies in International Affairs) and the 
University of Washington (Executive Masters in Public Administration). 
c. Participants will remain at their duty stations and spend limited time on 
campus, completing the majority of the course material online or via phone. 
 
3.  Application and Selection Process: 
a. The application window will close on 30 June 2021.  Up to 60 participants 
will be selected for AY 2021.  Target applicants are due-course warrior 
scholars who display all the qualities of dedicated career officers who 
aspire to command. 
b. Qualified candidates will meet the following prerequisite education and 
work experience criteria: O-2 to O-5, a Bachelor's degree from an accredited 
college or university, and a history of strong academic performance 
demonstrated by college transcripts. 
c. Candidates should submit their application package to NED.fct@navy.mil via 
encrypted email or the SAFE tool 
at https://safe.apps.mil no later than 30 June 2021.  Packages must 
include the following: Commanding Officer's endorsement; Detailer/Moderator 
endorsement; applicant biography; academic transcripts (unofficial are 
acceptable for the initial application) from all undergraduate and higher 
education to include transfer credits; statement of purpose explaining why 
the applicant is interested in LGEP and how the education would benefit the 
DON. GRE/GMAT scores are not required.  The Office of the Assistant Secretary 
of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) will forward the applications to 
the services for approval prior to the service members acceptance to LGEP. 
d. Applicants will first apply to LGEP and, if selected, go through an 
expedited application process with the selected partner school.  Applicants 
will be matched with school programs based on factors to include geographic 
location, career progression, prioritized student program preference, and the 
probability that the applicant will be accepted into the school's graduate 
program based upon previous academic performance.  Once provisionally 
accepted into the LGEP, students must provide official transcripts to the 
prospective university's graduate program, along with other information as 
required. 
e. LGEP selectees will be announced by 19 July 2021 via email from Naval 
Education Division (NED). The LGEP program will be centrally funded and cover 
tuition, required books up to $500.00, and local travel.  Selectees will be 
responsible for internet access to participate in online assignments and web 
-enabled interactions with instructors and other students. 
 
4.  Service Obligation: 
a. Per references (a) and (b), selected candidates must sign and commit to a 
Continued Service Agreement which will incur a service obligation within the 
DON of three times the number of months spent in the academic program served 
concurrently with other obligations, up to a maximum of a three-year service 
obligation.  The service obligation will commence upon completion of or 
withdrawal from the program, and will be incurred whether or not the service 
member successfully completes the academic coursework or degree. 
 
5.  Point of contact: 
a. LT Kevin Carlsen at email: kevin.s.carlsen(at)navy.mil. 
b. Submit applications to NED.fct@navy.mil via encrypted email or the SAFE 
tool at https://safe.apps.mil, with notification to LT Kevin Carlsen 
(kevin.s.carlsen(at)navy.mil) of package submission. 
 
6.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
7.  Released by VADM J. W. Hughes, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Warfighting Development (N7)// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
