UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 231957Z MAR 20 MID110000511164U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 083/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNIC WASHINGTON DC/N00/MAR//

SUBJ/RESTRICTION OF MOVEMENT (ROM) GUIDANCE//

REF/A/DOC/USD/11MAR20//
REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/212007ZMAR20//
REF/C/DOC/BUMED/17MAR20//

NARR/REF A IS UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMO, FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION 
GUIDANCE (SUPPLEMENT 4) - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE GUIDANCE FOR PERSONNEL TRAVEL 
DURING THE NOVEL CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 080/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS 
OUTBREAK UPDATE 3. 
REF C IS BUMED RETURN TO WORK GUIDELINES FOR CORONAVIRUS.//

RMKS/1. REF A requires that personnel returning from a Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Health Notice (THN) Level 3 or Level 2 
location perform a 14 day restriction of movement (ROM). During ROM, Service 
Members should be restricted to their residence or other appropriate domicile 
and limit close contact (within 6 feet or 2 meters) with others. This 
NAVADMIN clarifies the definition of ROM, provides amplifying guidance, and 
delineates responsibilities for execution of ROM.

2. Definitions.
    2.a. Restriction of Movement (ROM). General DoD term referring to the 
limitation of personal liberty for the purpose of ensuring health, safety and 
welfare. ROM is inclusive of quarantine and isolation.
        2.a.(1) Quarantine. Medical term referring to the separation of 
personnel from others as a result of suspected exposure to a communicable 
disease. For the world-wide COVID-19 epidemic, this should be imposed on 
those with no COVID-19 symptoms who have either recently returned from a 
high-risk location (CDC THN Level 2 or 3), or have had close contact with a 
known COVID-19 positive patient. The current recommended quarantine period is 
14 days. Per CDC, quarantine generally means the separation of a person or 
group of people reasonably believed to have been exposed to a communicable 
disease but not yet symptomatic, from others who have not been so exposed, to 
prevent the possible spread of the communicable disease.

2.a.(2) Isolation. Medical term referring to the separation of personnel from 
others due either to the development of potential COVID-19 symptoms or as a 
result of a positive COVID-19 test. Per CDC, isolation means the separation 
of a person or group of people known or reasonably believed to be infected 
with a communicable disease and potentially infectious from those who are not 
infected to prevent spread of the communicable disease. Isolation for public 
health purposes may be voluntary or compelled by federal, state, or local 
public health order.
    2.b. Patient (or Person) Under Investigation (PUI). In the case of COVID-
19, a PUI is defined as an individual with either a pending COVID-19 test or 
for whom a test would have been ordered/conducted had one been available.
    2.c. Self-monitoring. Per CDC, self-monitoring means people should 
monitor themselves for fever by taking their temperatures twice a day and 
remaining alert for the onset of a cough or difficulty breathing. If an 
individual feels feverish or develops a measured fever, cough, or difficulty 
breathing during the self-monitoring period, they should self-isolate, limit 
contact with others, and seek advice by telephone from a healthcare provider 
or their local health department to determine whether further medical 
evaluation is needed.
    2.d. Close Contact. Per CDC, a close contact is defined as:
        2.d.(1) Being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters) of a COVID-19 
case for a prolonged period of time; the current recommended threshold is 10 
minutes. Close contact can occur while caring for, living with, visiting, or 
sharing a healthcare waiting area or room with a COVID-19 case, or
        2.d.(2) Having direct contact with infectious secretions of a COVID-
19 case (e.g., being coughed on).

3. Applicability. ROM applies to all Service Members, who in the last 14 days 
have either been in:
    3.a. An area with ongoing spread of COVID-19 as defined as CDC designated 
Level 2 and 3 countries (https:// www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-
ncov/travelers/map-and-travel-notices.html), or
    3.b. Close contact with a person known to have COVID-19.
    3.c. Per REF A, it is strongly recommended that DoD civilian employees, 
contractor personnel and dependents also follow this guidance.

4. Guidance.
    4.a. ROM personnel shall be directed to remain at home or in a comparable 
setting for 14 days ROM from the day of departure or contact. For transient 
personnel and those residing in close quarters such as unaccompanied housing 
or ships, temporary lodging meeting CDC guidance of separate sleeping and 
bathroom facilities shall be arranged, when available.
    4.b. When in ROM, personnel shall avoid congregate settings, limit close 
contact with people and pets or other animals to the greatest extent 
possible, avoid traveling, self-monitor, and seek immediate medical care if 
symptoms (e.g., cough or shortness of breath) develop.
    4.c. Personnel assigned ROM may exit quarters to access laundry 
facilities, outdoor exercise, and designated smoking areas; and conduct other 
routine tasks not in a public setting provided they maintain social 
distancing greater than 6 feet from others. Access to messing facilities, 
stores, fitness centers and other widely used support services is prohibited.
    4.d. For temporary lodging, normal room cleaning services will be 
suspended during the ROM period.
    4.e. For personnel executing ROM in private residence, coordinate with 
parent command for the purchase of required food/hygiene items or arrange 
delivery through other means.
    4.f.  After completion of ROM, return to work per REF C and Combatant 
Commander guidance, if applicable.

5. Responsibilities.
    5.a. Parent command Commanding Officer/Officer in Charge shall:
        5.a.(1) Ensure screening of personnel for ROM.
        5.a.(2) Ensure ROM personnel comply with paragraph 4.
        5.a.(3) If temporary lodging is required:
            5.a.(3)A. Provide cost orders for ROM personnel. Orders will 
direct the Service Member to a ROM status and not TAD to the host 
installation.
Recommend funding for temporary lodging, if required, be obtained through the 
Type Commander. This may be accomplished utilizing a General Terms and 
Conditions document to avoid issues arising from Service Members not having 
government travel cards.
            5.a.(3)B. Coordinate with installation Commanding Officer for 
room assignment. It is imperative that tenant commands inform installations 
of all personnel in ROM within government facilities (to include barracks, 
NGIS, Navy Lodge, PPV family housing, and PPV barracks).
            5.a.(3)C. As needed, coordinate messing support with the 
Commanding Officer where a galley is available. Arrangements will be made 
between the parent command and the installation for the delivery of meals to 
Service Members in a ROM status.
            5.a.(3)D. As required, provide daily support to ROM personnel to 
ensure meal delivery as well as health and comfort checks.
            5.A.(3)E. Ensure personnel supporting individuals in ROM are 
trained on the status of ROM personnel and associated interaction protocols. 
Close contact is prohibited. PPE is not required.
        5.a.(4) If private residence is utilized, coordinate with ROM 
personnel to ensure all messing needs are met.
    5.b. Installation Commanding Officers shall:
        5.b.(1) Account daily for available temporary lodging to support ROM.
        5.b.(2) Track all ROM personnel residing in Navy Lodging 
(unaccompanied housing, NGIS, Navy Lodge, PPV family housing, PPV barracks) 
both on and off installation. There is no need for installations to track 
tenant personnel in a ROM status in private residence/lodging.
        5.b.(3) Provide detailed instructions to tenant commands who require 
temporary ROM lodging support.
        5.b.(4) If available, coordinate with parent commands to provide take 
-out meals for delivery to ROM personnel.
        5.b.(5) Ensure temporary lodging staff are trained on the status of 
ROM personnel and associated interaction protocols. Close contact is 
prohibited. PPE is not required.
        5.b.(6) Follow CDC guidance for cleaning rooms following the ROM 
period.
Ensure the standards are the same across all facilities (unaccompanied 
housing, NGIS, Navy Lodge).
        5.b.(7) For the safety of lodging personnel, ensure clear discrete 
procedures are in place to identify rooms which are occupied by ROM 
personnel.
        5.b.(8) Ensure fire and emergency services are aware of ROM personnel 
locations, particularly those in isolation, and are prepared to respond to 
medical emergencies with appropriate PPE.

6. Entitlements. Per REF B.

7. Reporting Requirements. Per REF B.

8. ROM FAQs.
Question 1. When placed on Restriction of Movement (ROM), can I travel to 
locations within the fence line of an installation to utilize facilities such 
as the NEX food court or the gym?

Answer 1. No, during the duration of ROM, Service Members must remain in 
their rooms with the exception of brief trips to utilize designated smoking 
areas, walking in the immediate vicinity of the building (usually within 100 
feet), and limiting close contact (within 6 feet) with others. If your 
facility contains an in house gym, do not use it.

Question 2. Can I accept food deliveries from various services?

Answer 2. Yes, food must be placed outside the room. Minimize close contact 
(within 6 feet).

Question 3. Can my family or friends visit me?

Answer 3. Yes, provided they do not enter your room. Conversations should be 
held with visitors staying in the passageway outside the room and Service 
Members in their room. Minimize close contact (within 6 feet).

Question 4. Can I do my laundry?

Answer 4. Yes, but you should coordinate with your command to utilize in 
house laundry facilities.

Question 5. How do I obtain personal hygiene items?

Answer 5. Utilize the point of contact provided by your command to arrange 
for purchase of these items.

Question 6. Will my room be cleaned daily?

Answer 6. No, your room will not be cleaned during your stay. Trash pickup is 
available by placing your trash can in the passageway.

Question 7. Is Personal Protective Equipment required for personnel in my 
vicinity?

Answer 7. No, you should limit close contact (within 6 feet) with others.
Question 8. Can I ROM in open bay barracks or in rooms with shared bathrooms?

Answer 8. No, individuals should be placed in separate lodging (when 
available).

Question 9. Can I use public transportation if in ROM status?

Answer 9. No, individuals on ROM should avoid crowds and public locations.

Question 10. Can I get off ROM early if I was in close contact to a person 
with COVID-19, and I feel like I am not sick?

Answer 10. No, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommends 14 days of 
ROM from the last date of exposure to a COVID-19 positive person.

Question 11. What is the difference between quarantine and restriction of 
movement (ROM)?

Answer 11. Quarantine is a legal public health term used for civilian 
restrictions and ROM is a military term being used to identify military 
individuals who are restricted in their movement, generally to their 
residence.

Question 12. Are my family members at risk if I ROM at home with them?

Answer 12. ROM status is a precautionary step to prevent spread to others.
Considering this, it is recommended that while at home in a ROM status, you 
practice social distancing. This means try to remain at least 6 feet from 
other persons, avoid using the same bathroom, or sleeping in the same bed.

Question 13. Can I prepare meals for my family while on ROM?

Answer 13. When in a ROM status, it is recommended you not prepare meals for 
your family because the virus is spread through respiratory droplets that can 
land on surfaces such as food. Ideally, you should have other individuals 
prepare food. If you are the only care giver, make sure you are washing your 
hands with soap and water for 20 seconds for general food safety. Make sure 
you cover your nose and mouth when coughing and wash your hands after using 
the bathroom.

Question 14. Should I be wearing a mask?

Answer 14. Masks will not protect you from inhaling the virus. The virus is 
very small and can make its way through and around the mask. The best way to 
prevent being infected or infecting others is to practice social distancing 
and good hygiene techniques (such as washing your hands regularly with soap 
and water for at least 20 seconds, avoid touching your face, avoid sick 
persons, etc).

Question 15. Do I need to clean my house to CDC standards?

Answer 15. It is recommended you maintain a clean living environment as you 
normally would. This includes frequent hand washing, washing clothing and 
bedding, and wiping down frequently touched surfaces with a sanitizing wipe 
or any cleaning product that contains at least 10 percent bleach. The 
Environmental Protection Agency has a list of products that have been 
specifically tested as effective in sanitizing surfaces.

9. Released by Vice Admiral M. M. Jackson, Commander, Navy Installations 
Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

