ROUTINE 
R 241246Z JUN 22 MID200001881597U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 137/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/JUN// 
 
SUBJ/247TH NAVY BIRTHDAY PLANNING ORDER// 
 
REF/A/CNO/OPNAVINST 5726.8B 
 
NARR/REF A is CNO's Outreach: America's Navy.// 
 
RMKS/1.  13 October 2022 will mark the Navy's 247th Birthday.  The central 
theme of this year's 247th Birthday and Heritage Week will be "On Watch - 
24/7 for 247 Years", which highlights our Navy's enduring ability to remain 
fully-ready to respond to and effectively deter emanating threats.  Beginning 
with the establishment of our Navy in 1775 and continuing to our current 
modern fleet, our Navy has stood the watch.  We continue to deploy forward as 
our nation's vital maritime maneuver force; persistent, versatile, and 
capable of winning any fight and ready for the challenges of an unpredictable 
future. 
 
2.  Today, the Navy's Birthday celebrates our traditions of honor, courage, 
and commitment and recognizes Sailors past and present who are the foundation 
upon which we have built the world's greatest Navy and secured victories for 
our nation. 
 
3.  Commander's Intent. 
     a.  Purpose.  Celebrate 247 years of naval history on or around 13 
October 2022. 
     b.  Method.  Execute a global birthday celebration with events in a 
manner that bring honor and respect upon our service and adhere to local 
command budget and health guidelines. 
     c.  End State.  Instill in our Sailors and communicate with the public 
the importance of, and a sense of pride in, our Navy's history and 
heritage.  Harness the unique stories of the entire Navy force -uniformed 
Sailors active and reserve, officer and enlisted, and civilians - to showcase 
the Navy's value and relevance.  Celebrate our hard-fought victories in all 
domains and honor our shipmates who have stood and stand the watch. 
 
4.  Tasks. 
     a.  Director, Navy Staff (DNS) will oversee planning and program 
evelopment for the annual Navy Birthday celebration. 
     b.  Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC) will: 
          (1) Oversee the execution of Navy Birthday events. 
          (2) Provide digital resources for use by U.S. Fleet Forces Command 
          (USFFC); Commander, Pacific Fleet (COMPACFLT); Commander, Naval 
Reserve Forces Command (COMRESFOR); Commander, Naval Installations Command 
(CNIC); Chief of Navy Information (CHINFO); Regional Commanders and 
Commanding Officers (COs) and Officers in Charge (OICs). 
          (3) Provide Navy Birthday toolkit at:   
https://www.history.navy.mil/browse-by-topic/commemorations-toolkits/navy-
birthday.html. 
          (4) Collect information from USFFC, COMPACFLT, CNIC, COMRESFOR, 
CHINFO, and Navy District Washington (NDW) regarding specific celebratory 
activities. 
          (5) Develop and make available on NHHC's website, a body of lessons 
learned from previous Navy Birthday celebrations. 
          (6) Produce Plan of the Day historical notes for each warfare 
community for the week leading up to the celebration. 
     c.  USFFC, COMPACFLT, and all assets therein, will: 
          (1) Ensure COs and OICs plan for and celebrate the 247th Navy 
Birthday.  Events shall be coordinated with appropriate Region or Operational 
Commanders to support the requirement for coordinated ceremonies and reported 
to NHHC. 
          (2) Execute Communication Plan and participate in planned community 
activities as operationally feasible. 
          (3) Provide lessons learned to NHHC NLT 4 November 2022. 
          (4) Report command-specific scheduled celebratory activities to 
NHHC weekly starting 6 September 2022 during working group meetings.  A 
downloadable reporting document will be made available as part of the 
toolkit. 
     d.  CNIC will: 
           (1) Ensure Regional Commanders host a Navy Birthday ceremony and 
other celebratory activities during Navy Birthday and heritage week. 
           (2) Assist and direct Regional Commanders with a bell ringing 
ceremony and assist subordinate commands with other Navy Birthday 
celebrations. 
           (3) Provide lessons learned via the notes section of the reporting 
document to NHHC NLT 4 November 2022. 
           (4) Execute Communication Plan and participate in planned 
community activities as operationally feasible. 
           (5) Report command specific scheduled celebratory activities to 
NHHC weekly starting 6 September 2022. 
     e.  COMRESFOR will: 
            (1) Ensure Regional Reserve Component Commanders and Navy 
Operational Support Commands (NOSC) host a Navy Birthday celebration, bell 
ringing, and other celebratory activities during Navy Birthday week, 
including during October 2022 drill weekends or as close to 13 October 2022 
as feasible. 
            (2) Provide lessons learned via the notes section of the 
reporting document to NHHC NLT 4 November 2022. 
            (3) Execute Communication Plan and participate in planned 
community activities as operationally feasible. 
            (4) Report command specific scheduled celebratory activities to 
NHHC weekly starting 6 September 2022. 
     f.  CHINFO will Develop a Navy Birthday Communication Plan in 
coordination with NHHC and provide to ashore and afloat commands NLT 15 July 
2022.  This plan should include Navy's strategic message and talking points 
for this event linked to reference (a) efforts. 
     g.  Naval District Washington (NDW) will: 
            (1) Execute a bell ringing ceremony in honor of those who stood 
the watch in our nation's Navy.  Report bell ringing and other celebratory 
actions to NHHC that support the requirement to commemorate the Navy 
Birthday. 
            (2) Provide DNS with Plan of Action and Milestones for the 
execution of the National Capital Region (NCR) Navy Birthday Celebration NLT 
9 September 2022. 
            (3) Provide lessons learned from the NCR ceremony to NHHC NLT  
4 November 2022. 
 
5.  Admin. 
     a.  The following are directed to be available at the NHHC website 
     (https://www.history.navy.mil/) NLT 17 July 2022:  Plan of the day 
historical notes for the week of Navy Birthday, commemoration script 
templates, history stand-down lessons, and a template for Navy Birthday bell 
ringing. 
     b.  Regional Commanders, Cos, and OICs will use NHHC and CHINFO products 
to inform and motivate their Sailors. 
     c.  Discretionary celebratory events.  The following is a list 
including, but not limited to, events that Commanders may schedule: 
          (1) Bell ringing ceremony 
          (2) Plan of the Day notes 
          (3) Cake cutting 
          (4) History stand-down 
          (5) Reading of SECNAV/CNO Birthday messages 
          (6) Command picnics/fun day 
          (7) Golf tournament 
          (8) Awards ceremony 
          (9) Chief's Mess/Wardroom Luncheons 
          (10) Classic Navy movie presentation 
          (11) Birthday run 
          (12) Re-enlistments 
          (13) Birthday ball/dining out 
      d.  Public Affairs (PA) Guidance. 
               (1) The PA posture is active for birthday events. 
               (2) PA guidance will be provided SEPCOR. 
 
6.  Command relationships. 
     a.  NHHC is the supported command. 
     b.  USFFC, COMPACFLT, CNIC, CHINFO, COMRESFOR, and NDW are supporting 
commands. 
     c.  Supplemental Navy Birthday PLANORDS will be released to assist COs 
and OICs in order to implement a successful Navy Birthday celebration. 
 
7.  Point of Contact (POC). 
     a.  NHHC POC is Stefanie Lamay, comm:  (202) 433-0301, email: 
     stefanie.m.lamay.civ(AT)us.navy.mil. 
     b.  Supporting commanders provide primary POC contact information to 
     Stefanie Lamay NLT 15 July 2022. 
 
8.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
