ROUTINE 
R 261901Z JUL 22 MID200080057348U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 168/22 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/JUL// 
 
SUBJ//NAVPLAN 2022// 
 
RMKS/1.  Shipmates, I am proud to announce the release of Navigation Plan 
2022. 
This document surveys the state of our Navy and provides direction on our 
future.  Navigation Plan 2022 builds upon the solid foundation set by last 
year's NAVPLAN and takes into account three significant developments. 
 
2.  First, earlier this year, the Secretary of Defense released the 2022 
National Defense Strategy (NDS), which sets out how the Department of Defense 
(DoD) will contribute to advancing and safeguarding U.S. national interests. 
The NDS is clear about the formidable challenges our adversaries pose to the 
international rules-based order, as evidenced by China's and Russia's blatant 
attempts to reshape the security environment to their advantage.  In response 
to these challenges, the NDS introduces "integrated deterrence" as a unifying 
principle for the DoD.  Additionally, the NDS identifies "campaigning" and 
"building enduring advantages" as the additional ways through which we will 
achieve our Nation's goals.  In support of these ways, the NDS calls for 
updated operational concepts, including the Joint Warfighting Concept (JWC), 
to align capabilities and missions across the Services.  Our Navy plays a 
unique and critical role in supporting the NDS:  a ready, combat-credible, 
forward deployed fleet is the most potent, flexible, and versatile instrument 
of military power. Nested under the Secretary of the Navy's Strategic 
Guidance and the Tri-Service Maritime Strategy, Navigation Plan 2022 outlines 
how we will continue adapting to the security environment in order to fulfill 
our singular role as part of the Joint Force defending our Nation. 
 
3.  Second, Navigation Plan 2022 accounts for the progress we have made and 
what we have learned as a result of the NAVPLAN Implementation Framework 
(NIF).  The NIF has accelerated our progress in 18 separate focus areas, but 
we still have much work to do.  To continue delivering the outcomes called 
for in the NIF, Navigation Plan 2022 identifies a supported commander for 
each objective, promoting alignment, accountability, coordination, and 
collaboration.  We have made significant progress this past year, breaking 
through stovepipes and turning priorities into tangible action.  However, we 
must accelerate key capabilities, such as our ability to shoot, maneuver, 
defend, and resupply, while building momentum in additional critical areas, 
including:  live, virtual, and constructive (LVC) training, the Naval 
Operational Architecture, artificial intelligence, and unmanned systems. 
 
4.  Third, Navigation Plan 2022 directs necessary course corrections to the 
design of our future force. Six overarching Force Design Imperatives--
Distance, Deception, Defense, Distribution, Delivery, and Decision Advantage-
-will guide the development of our naval capabilities and enable us to employ 
our warfighting concepts. These imperatives will feed an "engine" of strategy 
that will better inform our budget choices-leveraging wargaming, analysis, 
research, experimentation, and disruptive technology.  The Deputy Chief of 
Naval Operations for Warfighting Development (OPNAV N7) will become the 
supported commander responsible for developing, maintaining, and refining the 
Navy's Force Design vision. A collaborative, continuous, and iterative Force 
Design process will energize our modernization efforts and help us maintain 
our maritime advantage in this critical decade and beyond. 
 
5.  Ultimately, Navigation Plan 2022 reflects the Get Real, Get Better call 
to action we are now adopting throughout our Navy.  The rapidly increasing 
capabilities of our adversaries and their demonstrated intent to threaten 
our national interests demand that we focus on continuous improvement. 
We must courageously self-assess, deliberately self-correct, and continuously 
learn. Navigation Plan 2022 acknowledges identified shortcomings and barriers 
to our future progress, while charting the path forward to overcome them. 
 
6.  Everything in Navigation Plan 2022 supports our four overarching 
priorities: 
Readiness, Capabilities, Capacity, and Sailors.  We must maintain readiness, 
keeping combat-credible forces forward in order to protect the free and open 
system underpinning American security and prosperity.  We must possess 
capabilities to deter war and, if needed, win in conflict.  We must build 
capacity that will enable us to deliver sea control and project power.  And 
we must lead, train, and equip our Sailors to out-think and out-fight any 
adversary. 
 
7.  I expect all Navy leaders to read Navigation Plan 2022, which is 
available on the Navy.mil website 
(https://www.navy.mil/Leadership/Chief-of-Naval-Operations/). 
Each one of us has an important role to play, and our success depends on 
executing this Navigation Plan as a team. 
 
8.  Released by Admiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
