UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 192309Z MAR 20 MID110000495015U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 074/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK 
UPDATE 2//

REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/122210ZMAR20//
REF/B/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/142000ZMAR20//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 064/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO 
CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK FOR OVERSEAS TRAVEL.  
REF B IS NAVADMIN 065/20, NAVY MITIGATION MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO 
CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK UPDATE 1 FOR DOMESTIC TRAVEL.// 
POC/RADM KARL THOMAS/OPNAV N3N5B/703-692- 
9291/KARL.O.THOMAS1(AT)NAVY.MIL/ RADM JEFFREY JABLON/OPNAV N13/703-
604- 5040/JEFFREY.JABLON(AT)NAVY.MIL/ RADM GAYLE SHAFFER/OPNAV 
N093B/703-681-5201/GAYLE.D.
SHAFFER2(AT)MED.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN supersedes references (a) and (b) guidance and 
provides additional information concerning Permanent Change of Station 
(PCS) of Navy civilians, travel for official training, personal leave 
for Navy civilians, delegation of exception authority and regular 
reporting requirements.

2.  PCS.  The following paragraph is updated to provide clarification 
for Navy civilians who are under PCS orders.  Replace paragraph 3.A. 
of reference (b) with the following:
Quote
    3.A.  Permanent Change of Station (PCS).  All Department of the 
Navy civilian employees, whose transportation is government funded 
will stop movement.  Navy commands may continue civilian hiring 
actions, but may only onboard civilian employees in the local 
commuting area.  Service Members and dependents under PCS orders who 
have not yet initiated travel will adhere to the following guidance.
Unquote

3.  Travel for official training.  The following paragraph is updated 
to provide clarification for Service Members and Navy civilians who 
are under PCS or Temporary Duty (TAD/TDY) orders and attending 
training and/or schools.  Replace paragraph 3.C.2 of reference (b) 
with the following:
Quote
    3.C.2.  Service Members and Navy civilians currently under PCS or 
TAD/TDY orders and attending training and/or schools will complete 
their current training and/or school.  For those on TAD/TDY orders, 
Service Members and Navy civilians are directed to contact the command 
that issued the orders for returning instructions/guidance.  Navy 
civilians executing PCS orders are directed to contact the command 
that issued the orders for further guidance.  Service Members 
executing PCS orders are directed to contact Navy Personnel Command 
for guidance and potential orders modification.  Once the current 
school/training is complete, Service Members should expect to take one 
of the following actions:  (1) Return to their previous Permanent Duty 
Station (PDS), (2) Remain at the school/training site if prudent for 
health protection, (3) If the next school/training is in the same 
location and the course is still being offered, continue training.  
Reevaluate after school/training completion, (4) Proceed to the 
ultimate PDS.
Decisions will be based on force health protection considerations.
Throughout the process Service Members should consult with their 
affected command (current, losing or future) as well as their detailer 
where applicable.
Unquote

4.  Personal Leave and Liberty.  The following paragraph is updated to 
provide clarification on leave policy for Navy civilians.
Replace paragraph 3.D. of reference (b) with the following:
Quote
    3.D.  Personal Leave and Liberty.  For Service Members, Commanding 
Officers (CO) and officers in charge may authorize local leave IAW 
command policy.  Leave or personal travel outside of the local area, 
as defined by Commanding Officers and officers in charge, requires an 
exception as outlined in paragraph 3.E.  For those Service Members 
currently on leave, COs or officers in charge are delegated authority 
to terminate leave early or allow completion of leave as authorized 
based on location, duration and risk to Service Member.  For Navy 
civilians, approval or denial of civilian annual leave requests will 
be based on mission requirements.  While intended travel outside the 
local commuting area may be considered in determining impact to 
mission requirements, leave requests for Navy civilians cannot be 
denied solely because an employee is travelling outside of the local 
commuting area.  In line with reference (e) paragraph 3(b) Navy 
civilian employees are strongly encouraged to avoid personal leave 
outside of the local area.
Unquote

5.  Exception Authority.
    5.A. The following paragraph provides updated delegation of 
authority in reference (a) to approve or deny stop movement exceptions 
for Service Members.  Replace paragraph 3.E.2.b. of reference (a) with 
the following:
Quote
    3.E.2.b.  Authority to approve or deny stop movement exceptions 
for uniformed Service Members in the case of:  (1) Official travel in 
paragraph 3.B. and (2) Official training, not associated with a PCS, 
in paragraph 3.C. and (3) Leave requests that include travel outside 
of the local area in paragraph 3.D, is delegated to the echelon 2 
commander.  The echelon 2 commander may further delegate exception 
authority, but no lower than the first flag officer or Senior 
Executive Service (SES) in the chain of command of the Service Member.  
Those who are granted an exception will comply with the echelon 2 
guidance concerning pre- and post- travel screening and reception 
procedures.
Unquote
    5.B.  The following paragraph provides updated delegation of 
authority in reference (b) to approve or deny stop movement exceptions 
for both Service Members and Navy civilians.  Replace paragraph 3.E.2. 
and add paragraph 3.E.3. of reference (b) with the
following:
Quote
    3.E.2.  Exceptions for travel not associated with PCS.
        3.E.2.a.  Authority to approve or deny stop movement 
exceptions for both Service Members and Navy civilians in the case
of:  (1) Official travel in paragraph 3.B., and (2) Official training, 
not associated with a PCS, in paragraph 3.C. is delegated to the 
echelon 2 commander.  The echelon 2 commander may further delegate 
exception authority, but no lower than the first flag officer or SES 
in the Service Member or chain of command of the Navy civilian.  Those 
who are granted an exception will comply with the echelon 2 guidance 
concerning pre- and post- travel screening and reception procedures.
        3.E.2.b.  Authority to approve or deny stop movement 
exceptions for Service Members for leave requests that include travel 
outside of the local area in paragraph 3.D is delegated to the echelon 
2 commander.  The echelon 2 commander may further delegate exception 
authority, but no lower than the first flag officer or SES in the 
chain of command of the Service Member.  Those who are granted an 
exception will comply with the echelon 2 guidance concerning pre- and 
post- travel screening and reception procedures.
    3.E.3.  Exceptions for PCS of Navy civilians.  Authority to 
approve or deny exceptions of the PCS of Navy civilians from outside 
the local commuting area in paragraph 3.A. is delegated to the echelon 
2 commander.  The echelon 2 commander may further delegate exception 
authority, but no lower than the first flag officer or SES in the 
chain of command of the command or activity performing the hiring 
action.  Those who are granted an exception will comply with the 
echelon 2 guidance concerning pre- and post- travel screening and 
reception procedures.
Unquote

6.  Entitlements.  The following paragraph provides additional 
information on entitlements associated with a Restriction of Movement 
(ROM).  Add the following as paragraph 3.J. to reference
(a) and as paragraph 3.H. to reference (b):
Quote
    3.J. or 3.H. Entitlements.  Changes to entitlements associated 
with a Restriction of Movement (ROM) have been approved and put in 
place by DOD.  The entitlements include, but are not limited to per 
diem for Service Members and dependents directed to ROM after arrival 
at a duty station after a PCS move and the implementation of Hardship 
Duty Pay (HDP)  ROM for members who incur unreimbursed lodging 
expenses when directed to ROM at their PDS.  Additionally, the Pay and 
Personnel Management Branch (PERS-2) has released Pay and Personnel 
Information Bulletin (PPIB) 20-5 and 20-6 which provided Navy Pay 
Offices with information regarding recent Joint Travel Regulation 
(JTR) changes regarding self-isolation and establishment of HDP-ROM.  
Eligibility for entitlements varies based on individual circumstances.  
If you have questions about entitlements, please contact the MyNavy 
career center (1-833-330-
6622) or via e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.
Unquote

7.  Reporting requirements.  The following paragraph provides 
additional reporting requirements.  As the COVID-19 situation unfolds 
and more of our personnel contract the virus, we are expanding 
reporting requirements to better understand the impact and recovery 
amongst the force.  Replace paragraph 4. of references (a) and (b) 
with the following amplified guidance in its entirety:
Quote

4.  Regular Reporting.  For CONUS commands, ensure your point of 
contacts (POC) submit accurate and timely COVID-19 daily reports and 
CCIRs to USFFC, with an information copy to the local installation 
commander, for consolidation and subsequent reporting to OPNAV.  For 
OCONUS commands, ensure your POCs submit accurate and timely COVID-
19 daily reports and CCIRs to the Navy Component Command/echelon 2 
command, with an information copy to the local installation commander, 
for consolidation and subsequent reporting to OPNAV.
Given potential rapid escalation of case numbers and impact on 
readiness, additional reporting is required.  Navy commands will 
report the following through their chain of command and via OPREP 
where appropriate:
    4.A.  COVID-19 daily reports.  COVID-19 Case Information broken 
out by Active-Duty, DON Civilian, Military Family Members and Navy 
Contractors as follows:
        4.A.1.  Active-Duty:  Total Persons Under Investigation 
(PUI)/Positive Cases/Positive Cases in Home Isolation/Positive Cases 
in Hospital/Positive Cases Recovering Post-Hospitalization/Positive 
Cases Returned to Work/Deaths,
        4.A.2.  Civilian:  Total PUI/Total Positive Cases/Positive 
Cases in Home Isolation/Positive Cases in Hospital/Positive Cases 
Recovering Post-Hospitalization/Positive Cases Returned to 
Work/Deaths,
        4.A.3.  Family Members:  Total PUI/Total Positive 
Cases/Positive Cases in Home Isolation/Positive Cases in 
Hospital/Positive Cases Recovering Post-Hospitalization/Deaths,
        4.A.4.  DoN Contractors:  Total PUI/Total Positive 
Cases/Positive Cases in Home Isolation/Positive Cases in 
Hospital/Positive Cases Recovering Post-Hospitalization/Deaths.
    4.B.  CCIRs.  For COVID-19 Active-Duty Service Members and Navy 
civilians only (in accordance with HIPAA and the Privacy Act):
        4.B.1.  Date individual identified as infected
        4.B.2.  Date individual admitted to hospital (if applicable)
        4.B.3.  Is individual in ICU?
        4.B.4.  Is individual on a ventilator?
        4.B.5.  Date individual is discharged
        4.B.6.  Date individual recovers
    4.C.  The death of a Navy Service Member, Navy civilian, Navy 
contractor, or family member due to COVID-19.
    4.D.  Any shortage of medical personal protective equipment
(PPE) or test kits.
    4.E.  Significant or newsworthy installation or facility closures.
    4.F.  Unit or installation is unable to meet isolation 
requirements.
    4.G.  Unit or installation is unable to meet operational 
requirements.
    4.H.  Any local or regional change in health protection condition 
(HPCON).
Unquote

8.  As the COVID-19 situation continues to evolve, Commander feedback 
is an important part of issuing revised or additional guidance.  It is 
virtually impossible to address all specific cases or situations.  
However, Commanders have the latitude to adjust direction based upon 
their unique situation.  For example, a unit that has been at sea for 
14 days with no COVID-19 cases may make the decision to relax social 
distancing requirements until they pull into port.

9.  POCs.  Service Members with questions regarding this guidance 
should contact the MyNavy Career Center at 1-833-330-6622 or via 
e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.  Detailers are ready to support all 
order modifications and commands should work with their placement 
officers.  Navy civilians with questions regarding this guidance 
should contact their supervisory chain of command.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

