CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 281903Z OCT 24 MID180000017868U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 221/24 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/OCT// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2025 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY LEADERSHIP EDUCATION AND 
DEVELOPMENT MASTERS PROGRAM// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the 
Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) 
masters program.  The United States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking 
applications from motivated, academically, and professionally 
qualified Unrestricted Line Officers for the FY25 LEAD masters 
program.  Selected officers will serve as both company officers and 
role models for our future naval officers.  The USNA company officer 
masters program is a unique opportunity for junior officers to 
participate in a 36-month graduate education and leadership 
experience.  The program combines a fully-funded masters degree in 
leadership education and development from the Naval Postgraduate 
School with a required 2-year follow-on commitment as a company 
officer at USNA in Annapolis, MD. 
 
2.  Additional information can be found on the USNA website at 
https://www.usna.edu/LEAD/Lead-Masters-Program/index.php. 
 
3.  Community specific eligible Year Groups (YG) and additional 
eligibility requirements follow: 
    a.  Surface Warfare: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG 21 surface warfare qualified officers 
who have demonstrated superior performance at sea, have screened for 
Department Head (DH) afloat, and who have the career timing to 
support a 36-month shore duty assignment prior to their 7.5-year 
mark of commissioned service.  Select YG 19 surface warfare officers 
may be eligible depending on career timing and current shore duty 
assignment.  Nuclear trained officers are also eligible however, due 
to the specific nature of their career timing, it is understood that 
they will rotate earlier than 36 months for DH school timing.  All 
YG 20 and 21 officers should contact their respective Surface 
Warfare Officer Assignment Division (PERS-41) junior officer 
detailer to determine their timeline to DH School. 
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations 
via the PERS-41 Talent Management Board (TMB).  PERS-41 junior 
officer detailers will assist the nominated officers with their 
online nomination package submission.  All TMB details will be 
announced via separate correspondence and support the timeline 
defined in this NAVADMIN. 
        (3) A DH retention bonus contract must be submitted 
immediately upon selection for the LEAD Program.  DH school 
attendance and the successful completion of two DH tours as defined 
by PERS-41 is required following the completion of USNA assignment. 
    b.  Submarine: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG 20 and 21. 
        (2) Submarine and Nuclear Officer Distribution Division 
(PERS-42) will review all applications and recommend for selection 
top performing officers who can meet Submarine Officers Advanced 
Course (SOAC) gate at 7.5 years of commissioned service.  SOAC 
attendance and completion of a DH tour is required following 
completion of USNA assignment. 
        (3) Eligible officers will compete for nominations via the 
PERS-42 TMB.  Application materials required for the TMB are those 
listed in this NAVADMIN. 
        (4) A nuclear officer bonus contract must be submitted 
immediately upon acceptance into the LEAD program.  SOAC attendance 
and the successful completion of a DH tour as defined by PERS-42 is 
required following the completion of USNA LEAD assignment. 
    c.  Aviation: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  Officers eligible for first shore tour. 
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations 
via USNA-run TMB.  Primary criteria utilized for selection will be 
past performance, qualifications, career timing, and community 
needs.  Interested officers should contact their respective Aviation 
Officer Distribution Division (PERS-43) detailer for assistance with 
nomination package submission. 
    d.  Special Warfare: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  No restriction. 
        (2) Prospective applicants must be screened by the DH board 
and education panel and have signed the naval special warfare 
officer continuation pay contract.  Applicants meeting these 
criteria will compete for SEAL/SWCC Officer Assignments and 
Placement Division (PERS-415) nominations based on their 
performance, academic qualifications, and suitability for the 
program. 
    e.  Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD): 
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG 17-19. 
        (2) Prospective applicants must have completed an EOD 
company commander tour, be administratively board screened for EOD 
DH, and signed the EOD warfare officer retention bonus contract. 
Applicants meeting these criteria will compete for EOD Officer 
Assignment and Placement Division (PERS-416) nominations based on 
their performance, academic qualifications, and suitability for the 
program. 
    f.  Information Warfare: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  No restriction. 
        (2) Prospective applicants will compete for USNA LEAD 
nominations via the Information Warfare Community Division (PERS-47) 
TMB.  Primary criteria utilized for selection will be past 
performance, qualifications, career timing, and community needs. 
Interested officers should contact their respective PERS-47 detailer 
for assistance with nomination package submission. 
 
4.  Interested officers must: 
    a.  Complete an application and forward to respective detailer. 
A sample can be found at https://www.usna.edu/LEAD/Lead-Masters-Program/LEAD-
Program-Application.php.  The application package must include: 
        (1) Completed application page (PDF fillable version found 
at the website above). 
        (2) Personal statement that specifically addresses the 
reason for the application to the LEAD program, how the program fits 
into your career goals, and your expectations with respect to the 
program. 
        (3) Biography (following the format provided at the website 
above). 
        (4) All higher education transcripts. 
        (5) Copy of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores taken 
within the last 5 years (or statement explaining why you are unable 
to take the GRE such as deployment or operational commitments). 
        (6) Chain of command endorsement (required). 
        (7) Additional professional and academic letters of 
recommendation (desired, not required). 
        (8) Copy of performance summary report, officer summary 
record, and last five fitness reports. 
    b.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the 
cognizant detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All 
applications will be vetted through detailers to verify career 
timing impact. 
 
5.  Any inquiries should be sent to LCDR Michael Watrol, PERS-443, 
PERS-440_submit.fct@navy.mil 
 
6.  Released by VADM Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
