CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 131314Z MAR 25 MID120001788087U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 053/25
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/NOTICE OF CONVENING FISCAL YEAR 2026 TEST PILOT SCHOOL SELECTION BOARD 
#2//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/06JAN21//
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1500.62E, TEST PILOT SCHOOLS//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the Fiscal Year
2026 (FY26) U.S. Naval Test Pilot School (USNTPS) Selection Board #2 on 19 
June 2025.  This board will select highly-qualified Naval Aviators and Naval 
Flight Officers (NFO) for USNTPS.  It will also select one fixed-wing pilot 
for U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School and one rotary-wing pilot for Empire 
Test Pilot School (ETPS).  ETPS graduates have significant and long-lasting 
influence on platforms and systems that directly impact the future 
warfighting capability of the Fleet.  Request command and Fleet community 
assistance to identify candidates with strong operational performance and, 
ideally, strong academic backgrounds in Science, Technology, Engineering, and 
Mathematics fields of study.

2.  To be eligible for board consideration, a signed and command- endorsed 
application in line with reference (a), must be received by MyNavy Career 
Center (MNCC) no later than 8 May 2025.  Applicants are encouraged to review 
reference (a) in detail to ensure their package complies with application 
guidelines.  Applicants with missing required information may be removed from 
consideration.
Additional documentation (including Wing/CAG endorsements, letters of 
recommendation, Fitness Reports (FITREP), etc.) will be accepted until 5 June 
2025, but must be submitted by the applicant as a letter to the board, in 
line with subparagraph 4a below.  The application must include e-mail 
address(es), phone number(s), college transcripts, Anthropometric Data 
Measurement Record, a current Physical Readiness Test and Body Composition 
Detail Report from Physical Readiness Information Management System, last 
FITREP, service agreement, and post-TPS test squadron assignment preferences.  
Current contact information (ashore/afloat email and phone) of the Commanding 
Officer must be included to expedite notification, if selected.

3.  Typical post-TPS assignments for graduates are listed below, but are 
subject to change and vary board to board.  Post-TPS assignments are 
typically finalized halfway through the TPS course of instruction.
    a.  VX-20:  VP, VQ, VAW, VRC
    b.  HX-21:  All Helo, VRM
    c.  VX-23/VX-31:  VFA, VAQ
    d.  VX-30:  VP, VAW, VAQ
    e.  UX-24:  All communities

4.  Command Endorsement:
    a.  The command endorsement must explicitly state whether the applicant, 
if selected, will be allowed and available to report for aircraft pre-arrival 
training by the following dates:
        (1) 1 August 2025 for fixed-wing pilots and tilt-rotor pilots
        (2) 1 October 2025 for rotary-wing
        (3) 1 November 2025 for NFO
    b.  Applicants with endorsements but availability dates that fall after 
these pre-arrival training dates may be removed from consideration and not 
reviewed by the board.  Inability for the applicant to meet the above dates 
may be mitigated by conducting initial training in a Temporary Additional 
Duty (TEMADD) status at the expense of the endorsing command.  If this is 
required, it must be explicitly stated in the command endorsement that the 
endorsing command will provide TEMADD funds until the applicant can 
officially detach.  If the applicant has official change of duty orders and 
is projected to transfer prior to the board convening date of 19 June 2025, a 
gaining command endorsement is required in addition to the endorsement from 
the applicant's current command.

5.  USNTPS has a cooperative program with Purdue University wherein Purdue 
teaches asynchronous online pre-arrival courses that serve as a technical 
refresher and provide four credits toward a master's degree.  Candidates 
selected for USNTPS will receive directions within 2 weeks of selection board 
results for their immediate enrollment in Purdue Online.  Required pre-
arrival coursework on foundational subjects (e.g., calculus and mechanics) 
will commence online approximately 5 months prior to USNTPS class convene 
date and will run concurrent to the preparatory aircraft training described 
above, dependent on the applicable timeline.  In cases where the pre-arrival 
online courses precede aircraft training, candidates are expected to complete 
the online courses while still attached to their current command.  If 
operational conflicts exist that prevent online pre-arrival course 
completion, selected candidates should contact USNTPS promptly to discuss 
contingencies.

6.  Application package submissions:
    a.  The preferred method of application submission is electronic.  Email 
encrypted PDF submissions to cscselboard@navy.mil and carbon copy 
ernesto.r.villalba.mil@us.navy.mil and brandy.l.dempster-
theisen.ctr@us.navy.mil.  If required, please visit 
https://dod411.gds.disa.mil/ to download the required mailbox certificates to 
encrypt the email.  If unable to send encrypted, please contact 
ernesto.r.villalba.mil@us.navy.mil and brandy.l.dempster-
theisen.ctr@us.navy.mil for assistance.
    b.  If unable to send electronically, applications may be sent via U.S. 
Postal Service to the following address: 

    MyNavy Career Center
    FY26 Test Pilot School Selection Board #2 (Board #380)
    5720 Integrity Drive
    Millington, TN 38055 

    c.  Applications sent via FEDEX/UPS/DHL should use the following address: 

    MyNavy Career Center
    FY26 Test Pilot School Selection Board #2 (Board #380)
    5640 Ticonderoga Loop, BLDG 768, RM E302
    Millington, TN 38055-6300

7.  Applicants should confirm receipt of their application package and all 
correspondence by calling the MNCC at 1-833-330-MNCC or DSN 882-6622.

8.  Eligibility:
    a.  Designated naval aviators and NFOs (13X0 and 1510
designators) through the grade of O4, who are qualified for flight duties and 
have not been terminated from flying status, are eligible for selection.
    b.  The preferred unrestricted line (13X0) aviators are O3 and
O4 aviators with detailer-forecasted career timing to complete the selected 
TPS program and a minimum 24-month follow-on test tour prior to their next 
career milestone (e.g. department head).
    c.  Aerospace Engineering Duty Officer (1510) aviators through the grade 
of O4 may be selected if they are able to serve a 36-month follow-on test 
tour and still meet career milestones.
    d.  Applicants determined to have insufficient career timing to meet the 
minimum test tour of 24 months may have their application removed from 
consideration.  Applicants may address any timing considerations in their 
personal statement.
    e.  Applicants should ensure they have a valid government passport that 
will not expire prior to completion of the class.
    f.  USNTPS operates a diverse set of fixed-wing jet, prop, and rotary-
wing aircraft.  Core aircraft include H-60, H-72, T-6, and T-38.   
T-6 and T-38 ejection seat weight limits are 103-245 lb.  All applicants must 
be able report to USNTPS pre-arrival training within the above weight limits.  
Applicants that have been anthropometrically or otherwise disqualified from a 
specific aircraft type, class, model, or series must include that information 
as part of their application package.  Applicants who currently exceed 
ejection seat weight limits or are disqualified from a type, class, model, or 
series aircraft that preclude safe operation of TPS core aircraft may have 
their application removed from consideration.
    g. Applicants must have a current Tier 5 investigation or Tier 5 
reinvestigation with eligibility for Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented 
Information (TS/SCI) before transferring to this command.  If the applicant 
does not have the aforementioned eligibility, then the command supporting the 
applicant will initiate a request for eligibility, requesting interim TS/SCI 
eligibility and ensuring the eligibility request has been accepted and is 
being processed.  Applicants unable to obtain a TS/SCI clearance may not be 
eligible for this assignment.

9.  Applicants should periodically check for updates and additional 
information via MyNavy HR at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Boards/Administrative/Test-Pilot/.

10.  The points of contact are CDR Ernesto R. Villalba, PERS-434B, via e-mail 
at ernesto.r.villalba.mil@us.navy.mil or Ms. Brandy Theisen, PERS-434B1, via 
e-mail at brandy.l.dempster-theisen.ctr@us.navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

