ROUTINE
R 011634Z JUN 22 MID200001761825U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 127/22
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUN//

SUBJ/DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY PHASE I UPDATE//

REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091538ZDEC21//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/230112ZAUG08//
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/022009ZDEC19//

NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 280/21, DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY 
(DMAP).   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 234/08, SEA SHORE FLOW ENLISTED CAREER PATHS.   
REF C IS NAVADMIN 274/19, SEA SHORE FLOW ENLISTED CAREER PATHS UPDATE.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides additional details and guidance regarding 
Detailing Marketplace Assignment Policy (DMAP) to ensure more Sailors and 
commands can benefit.
    a.  In addition to afloat commands benefitting from experienced and 
motivated Sailors staying at sea, DMAP plank owners selected in the recent 
inaugural MyNavy Assignment (MNA) cycle will:
        (1) Receive an increase in pay through advancement from E4 to E5, if 
not already E5.
        (2) Collect a monthly monetary incentive, Detailing Marketplace 
Incentive Pay (DMIP), in addition to collecting sea pay and sea pay premium.
        (3) Remain in the same homeport on the ship or squadron where they 
trained as an Apprentice Sailor if selected for Command Advance to Position 
(CA2P).
        (4) Earn an advantage in MNA for a follow-on shore tour assignment 
after completing their journeyman (E5) sea tour.
    b.  Sailors within the DMAP Phase I ratings (ABF, ABH, CS and
GSM) should anticipate maximum flexibility in determining who meets the 
requirements of reference (a) and minimum friction in accepting a DMAP plus-
three sea tour.  The MyNavy HR team will interpret every requirement within 
all DMAP policy guidance to ensure the greatest possible participation.

2.  Projected Rotation Date (PRD) Adjustments.  Effective immediately, 
Enlisted Distribution Division (PERS-40) will adjust PRDs to a 48-month tour 
for all E5 and E5 eligible Sailors within the DMAP Phase I ratings who are 
serving in their initial Continental United States (CONUS) sea tour.  This 
replaces paragraph

4.f of reference (a) and alleviates the administrative burden on activities 
by no longer requiring submission of Electronic Personnel Action Request 
(NAVPERS 1306/7) for DMAP Sailors.

3.  PRD Assignments for New Accession Sailors.  Effective immediately, all 
CONUS sea duty accession orders for Sailors in the DMAP Phase I ratings will 
be written for an initial 48-month sea tour.  Sailors who do not qualify for 
a journeyman (E5) sea tour after serving 3 years on their first sea tour will 
have their PRDs adjusted to align with their soft end of active obligated 
service.
This replaces paragraph 4.b in reference (a) and aligns with the DMAP four-
plus-three construct.

4.  CA2P.  To nominate a Sailor for CA2P, activities must submit a member 
realignment request (MRR) in MNA prior to or within the first
3 weeks of the next MNA cycle (i.e., prior to the end of the upcoming MNA 
scrub phase).  PERS-40 will validate that the activity has a current or 
projected E5 funded billet vacancy and then Sailors will be ranked based on 
their most recent E5 examination final multiple score.  If DMAP quotas are 
available (see paragraph 6), Sailors will:
    a.  Be approved for CA2P.
    b.  Be realigned to a valid E5 billet.
    c.  Have their PRD extended for a 3 year journeyman (E5) tour or a 7 year 
total initial sea tour (whichever is later).
    d.  Be frocked to E5 upon completion of agreement to obligate additional 
service as described above.
    e.  Be advanced to E5 upon completion of required training and placement 
into a valid E5 billet.
        (1) Commands can frock Sailors to E5 as soon as CA2P approval is 
received and the Sailor has obligated service through their extended PRD, 
either through reenlistment or extension of enlistment.
        (2) Sailors will advance to E5 and begin receiving E5 pay upon 
filling the E5 billet and will receive DMIP for the last three years on sea 
duty.  Transaction support centers will effect advancement to E5 upon 
receiving the required key supporting documents.
        (3) Instructions on how to submit an MRR, as well as a general list 
of eligibility requirements, can be found on the Detailing Marketplace 
webpage of the MyNavy HR website at:
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Detailing/Enlisted/Detailing-
Marketplace/.
        (4) The full MNA schedule is available on the detailing marketplace 
webpage listed above.  The first 3 weeks of the upcoming MNA cycles (i.e., 
the scrub phase) are provided below:
            6 - 24 June 2022
            8 - 28 August 2022
            3 - 21 October 2022
            5 - 22 December 2022
        (5) MNA does not allow activities to submit an MRR for Sailors who 
are within their order negotiation window (i.e., within
12 months of their PRD).  When operational requirements or PRD adjustments 
described in paragraph 2 above prevent MRR submissions prior to the order 
negotiation window, activities can submit CA2P nominations via email to 
DMAP.fct(at)navy.mil.  If the request is approved, actions will be executed 
in alignment with paragraph 4.

5.  Sailors on Second Sea Tour.  E5 eligible Sailors (i.e., E4 Sailors who 
have passed the most recent E5 Navy wide advancement
exam) and E5 Sailors in a DMAP Phase I rating who are on their second sea 
tour are eligible for DMAP incentives in return for a 3 year extension to the 
prescribed sea tour length listed in references (b) and (c).  This provides 
additional advancement opportunities to E5 eligible Sailors prior to hitting 
E4 high year tenure.  It also provides additional geographic stability 
options for Sailors desiring to remain in their current homeport.  This is an 
expansion of eligibility described in paragraphs 1 and 4 of reference (a).

6.  DMAP Quotas.  The number of DMAP quotas available (i.e., the number of 
Sailors that can be on a plus-three sea tour) for each Phase I rating depends 
on the number of sea and shore duty billets the rating needs to fill.  DMAP 
intends to fill sea duty billets that would remain unmanned under sea shore 
flow (SSF).  MyNavy HR intends to phase in the number of Sailors on a plus-
three journeyman
(E5) sea tour across several years to ensure a smooth transition from SSF to 
DMAP, provide opportunity fairness and avoid a large movement of Sailors from 
sea to shore at the end of their plus-three journeyman (E5) sea tour.

7.  Additional Considerations.  DMAP represents a major paradigm shift in how 
the Navy mans the Fleet.  As such, MyNavy HR intends to collect data and 
feedback to help inform future adjustments to DMAP.
Sailor and command flexibility and feedback remain key enablers to ensuring 
success.  To that end, the following considerations are
provided:
    a.  Tour Extensions.  The transition from SSF to DMAP may require PERS-40 
to extend Sailors in their current shore duty assignment to ensure proper 
manning of critical shore activities and to maximize the alignment between 
Sailor and billet rating and paygrade.
    b.  C-School Quota Management.  DMAP Sailors approved for CA2P or A2P who 
require training prior to filling a journeyman (E5) sea duty billet will be 
given priority placement in the appropriate C- school to the maximum extent 
practicable.
    c.  Pulse Surveys.  MyNavy HR intends to send pulse surveys to DMAP Phase 
I Sailors who negotiated for orders after each MNA cycle.
This gives Sailors the opportunity to provide direct feedback that will be 
used in future policy development.
    d.  Command Triad Feedback.  Command triads are encouraged to provide 
feedback, lessons learned and suggested improvements through their immediate 
superior in command and type commanders.

8.  Points of Contact
    a.  For specific rate/rating/Navy enlisted classification questions and 
concerns, Sailors should contact their respective community manager or 
detailer.
    b.  For general career information, including questions about DMIP, 
Advance to Position and CA2P, contact MyNavy Career Center contact center at 
833-330-MNCC (6622) or askmncc(at)navy.mil.
    c.  For DMAP questions, contact the MyNavy HR DMAP team at 
DMAP.fct(at)navy.mil.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

