UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 292122Z NOV 21 MID600051229095U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 272/21 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV// 
 
SUBJ/PUBLICATION OF BUPERSINST 1610.10F (EVALMAN)// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/06DEC19// 
REF/B/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/201449ZDEC18// 
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1610.10E, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
SYSTEM.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 312/18, ADVANCEMENT POLICY UPDATE.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the cancellation of reference (a) and the 
publication of BUPERSINST 1610.10F, Navy Performance Evaluation System 
(EVALMAN). 
 
2.  Summary of Changes:  This revision incorporates policy guidance contained 
in reference (b).  The following new guidance applies with the updated 
instruction: 
    a.  Rescind a requirement for administrative change requests to be 
submitted within two years of the performance evaluation end date. 
    b.  Incorporates multiple changes as part of the introduction of 
eNavFit.  The eNavFit interface consolidates the functionality of the current 
NAVFIT98A application with the Navy Personnel Command (PERS-32) processing 
capabilities into a uniform solution for the Navy.  This interface is a 
functionality bridge and is not meant to replace or modify the performance 
evaluation process.  The online and web-based solution allows users to 
create, edit, delete, route, validate and digitally sign reports.  It also 
allows a reporting senior to group and process summary group reports.  The 
online application is capable of receiving performance evaluation data from 
the offline version and will be deployed and operated within BUPERS Online 
(BOL) as the front end for Fleet users.  The offline version uses adobe 
reader forms and provides many of the same capabilities as the online 
version. 
        (1) Online performance evaluations submitted to BOL shall be 
digitally signed.  The eNavFit user guide can be reviewed and downloaded at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Performance-Evaluation/. 
        (2) Offline performance appraisals submitted via mail (FEDEX, USPS, 
UPS, DHL, etc.) shall be wet signed using only black or blue-black ink. 
        (3) Summary letters are not required for electronic submissions via 
BOL. 
        (4) Personal data may be auto populated from the BOL server. It 
should always be verified for correctness. 
    c.  Incorporates changes in chapter 18 for mid-term counseling and 
coaching integration.  Conducting mid-term counseling is not optional. 
        (1) Introduces the term supervisor as coach to replace the previous 
terminology of counselor due to the guidance, support and direction they 
provide during the performance counseling session. 
        (2) Introduces the term Sailor as performer to replace the previous 
terminology of member due to the member providing honest and candid feedback 
regarding gaps and opportunities for them to enhance their performance. 
        (3) Authorizes the individual development plan (IDP) to be used as an 
optional developmental tool and to serve as a performance counseling record 
and growth plan. 
        (4) Introduces addressing specific areas of performance improvement 
by demonstrating genuine curiosity and asking questions to guide the member 
to create an actionable plan. 
        (5) Incorporates changes to the supervisors preparation requirements 
to include reviewing the members self-appraisal, determine any opportunities 
for development and to create a rough outline of meeting talking points and 
goals to discuss. 
        (6) Incorporates changes to the members preparation requirements to 
include preparing a self-appraisal and preparing to receive both positive and 
constructive feedback. 
        (7) Introduces three core skills to be used during a meaningful 
performance counseling session to include active listening, empathy and 
asking powerful questions. 
        (8) Incorporates changes to the Guidelines for Supervisors to include 
the addition of five new steps titled:  The Introduction, Engage the Member, 
Diving Deeper, Give Specific Feedback and Ending the Performance Counseling 
Session. 
        (9) Incorporated changes to the follow-up/monitoring of the members 
performance counseling session to include the supervisor and member will 
agree to continue open and informal performance conversation after the mid-
term performance counseling session has concluded. 
    d.  Incorporates changes to regular reporting senior for Navy Reserve 
Unit Personnel. 
        (1) All members of Navy Reserve Units (e.g., commissioned/operational 
and readiness/augment) assigned to mobilization billets will be reported on 
by the commanding officer (CO) or officer in charge (OIC) of the unit 
mobilization unit identification code (UMUIC) effective 2 August 
2022.  Reports with a reporting senior signature from either the UMUIC or 
training unit identification code (TRUIC) will be accepted to support a 
transition period of 1 February 2022  1 August 2022. 
        (2) UMUIC and TRUIC leadership will coordinate during the transition 
period to determine appropriate submissions/content, taking into 
consideration professional growth, development, continuity and member 
advocacy to minimize any/all disruptions related to officer fitness reports, 
enlisted evaluations and Navy wide advancement exam cycles.  Members who are 
not assigned to a mobilization billet (e.g. who are in an in assignment 
processing (IAP) status) do not have an associated UMUIC and therefore the 
reporting senior will be the TRUIC CO/OIC. 
        (3) The reporting senior for IAP members in readiness support units 
(RSU), formerly known as operational support units (OSU), and those in 
voluntary training units (VTU), will be the designated TRUIC CO/OIC or the 
Navy operational support center CO. 
    e.  Incorporates changes to concurrent reporting senior for Navy Reserve 
unit personnel.  TRUIC reporting seniors shall follow procedures in chapter 4 
to submit inactive duty concurrent reports on their shared cross-assigned 
members to recognize those who significantly contribute to their TRUIC 
billets via inactive duty for training.  There will be a transition period of 
1 February 2022 to 1 August 2022 and UMUIC/TRUIC leadership will coordinate 
to determine the most appropriate reporting senior for concurrent 
reports during the transition period. 
    f.  Incorporates changes clarifying the use and what can be included in 
the comments section for the *N* code, Block 20, Physical Fitness Assessment 
Code, for pregnant service members. 
        (1) If using the *N* code because of pregnancy, no directed comment 
should be used in the performance comment section. 
        (2) Do not quote from medical reports or summaries and do not include 
comments pertaining to medical issues (physical and/or psychological, e.g. 
pregnancy, post-partum, etc.) that do not affect the members performance of 
duties and/or his or her effectiveness as a leader. 
    g.  Incorporates reference (b) announcing reporting seniors shall 
incorporate their post summary group reporting seniors cumulative average 
(RSCA) score for E-5 and E-6 evaluations into Block 43 (Comments on 
Performance).  This RSCA score will be on the last line of the comments. 
 
3.  For questions concerning these policy changes contact the MyNavy Career 
Center at (833) 833-6622 or via email at askmncc(at)navy.mil. 
 
4.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
