CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 151902Z MAY 23 MID600053021697U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 111/23 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 
 
SUBJ/FY-25 ACTIVE-DUTY LIMITED DUTY OFFICER, CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER, 
AND WARRANT OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/101548ZJUN19// 
REF/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/251736ZJAN18// 
REF/D/DOC/OPNAV/17JAN19// 
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/041710ZJUN18// 
REF/F/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.   
REF B IS NAVADMIN 128/19, OFF-RAMP GUIDANCE FOR ACTIVE COMPONENT SUBMARINE 
COMMUNICATIONS DESIGNATOR 6290 LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS.   
REF C IS NAVADMIN 014/18, UPDATED OFF-RAMP GUIDANCE FOR ACTIVE AND RESERVE 
COMPONENT SUPPLY CORPS LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS.   
REF D IS OPNAVINST 1210.5B, LATERAL TRANSFER AND REDESIGNATION OF ACTIVE 
COMPONENT OFFICERS IN THE NAVY.   
REF E IS NAVADMIN 140/18, MODIFICATION OF THE NAVY CYBER WARRANT OFFICER 
PROGRAM.   
REF F IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF 
THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications 
from highly qualified and motivated E-5 through E-9 Active Duty (AD) 
and Training and Administration of the Reserves personnel for the 
Fiscal Year 2025 (FY-25) Limited Duty Officer (LDO), Chief Warrant 
Officer (CWO), and Warrant Officer 1 (WO1) programs.  Where 
conflicts with reference (a) exist, this NAVADMIN takes precedence. 
 
2.  For the most current information concerning open designator 
codes, visit https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Officer/Active-OCM/LDO-CWO/Applicant-Information/.  
 
3.  Eligibility.  All applicants for the LDO, CWO, and WO1 programs 
must have a security clearance prior to commissioning, be able to 
complete operational duty screening and be worldwide assignable. 
     a.  All time-in-service (TIS) and time-in-grade (TIG) 
requirements for the FY-25 AD LDO and CWO In-Service Procurement 
Board (ISPB) will be computed as of 1 October 2024. 
     b.  TIS and TIG requirements are: 
      (1) LDO.  8-14 years TIS and 1-year TIG for E-6 and above. 
TIS waivers will be considered for up to 180 days beyond 14 years 
for LDO applicants.  TIS waivers for less than 8 years will not be 
considered.  No further exceptions will be considered. 
      (2) Applicants for LDO off-ramp designators (629X and 651X) 
may apply with up to 15 years of service and must understand 
designator-specific off-ramp requirements and procedures defined in 
references (b) through (d).  TIS waivers will not be considered or 
exceptions granted for off-ramp designators. 
      (3) Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicants may apply with up to 
16 years of service.  TIS waivers will not be considered or 
exceptions granted. 
         (4) CWO3.  14 to 22 years TIS for E-9, and E-8 selected for 
E-9.  TIS waivers will only be considered for up to 180 days beyond 
22 years for CWO3 applicants.  TIS waivers for less than 14 years 
will not be considered.  No further exceptions will be considered. 
         (5) CWO2.  14 to 20 years TIS for E-7, E-8, and E-6 selected 
for E-7, and for E-7 and E-8.  TIS waivers will only be considered 
up to 180 days beyond 20 years for CWO2 applicants.  TIS waivers for 
less than 14 years will not be considered.  No further exceptions 
will be considered. 
      (6) WO1 (784X only).  6 to 14 years TIS for E-5 and above. 
Cyber Warrant Officer WO1 (784X) applicants refer to the eligibility 
requirements listed in reference (e).  Applications will not be 
accepted for CWO2 and CWO3.  TIS waivers will not be considered or 
exceptions granted. 
      (7) TIS waivers must be submitted to ldocwoocm.fct@navy.mil 
no later than 15 July 2023 for adjudication.  Waiver applications 
received after 15 July 2023 will not be considered.  The TIS waiver 
template is available at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Community-Management/Officer/Active-OCM/LDO-CWO/Applicant-
Information/. NOTE:  The waiver approval letter must 
be submitted as an enclosure to the application. 
     c.  Contingency plan, if E-7 AD results are not released prior 
to the application deadline.  Due to the FY-24 enlisted selection 
board schedule for AD E-7, E-6s awaiting E-7 results to apply for 
CWO are encouraged to apply and submit their application by the 1 
October 2023 deadline with the following guidelines: 
     (1) Commands are directed to proceed with the application 
process for these applicants as outlined in this NAVADMIN. 
     (2) E-6s awaiting E-7 selection results 
must add the following statement at the beginning of the commanding 
officer's (CO) endorsement:  *Member is awaiting CPO results.* 
Commander, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-803) will set aside these 
applications until E-7 results are announced. 
        (3) E-6 evaluations due 15 November 2023 will be submitted as 
an addendum in the guidelines of this NAVADMIN.  If a Sailor is 
selected for E-7 and the pinning date is after 15 November 2023 and 
the Sailor has already received an E-6 periodic evaluation, the 
close-out evaluation is not required to be submitted as an addendum. 
Submit the close-out evaluation as an addendum if an E-6 periodic 
was not received.  Once all E-7 results are announced, PERS-803 will 
integrate or remove those records and applications accordingly. 
     d.  Navy Sea, Air, and Land (SEAL) CWO (715X) applicants will be 
considered for selection in one of two Core Competency Areas (CCA): 
SEAL CORE or SEAL SDV.  In order to apply, applicants must request a 
primary CCA and those holding qualifying Navy Enlisted 
Classifications in both fields may request a secondary CCA (i.e., 
715X CORE/715X SDV). 
     e.  Intelligence CWO (783X) applicants will be considered for 
selection into one of three Core Competency Areas (CCA): 
CI/HUMINT, GEOINT/Targeting, or OPINTEL.  In order to apply, 
applicants must request a primary CCA, and those holding qualifying 
Navy enlisted classifications in more than one field may request a 
secondary CCA (e.g., 783X CI/HUMINT/783X OPINTEL). 
     f.  E-6s serving in congressionally designated combat zones and 
approved contingency operations areas that meet the conditions of 
reference (f) are also eligible for LDO if all other eligibility 
requirements are met. 
     g.  Due to ongoing rating mergers and realignments, eligible 
Sailors are encouraged to apply for the designator for which they 
have extensive documented technical expertise and leadership 
experience in their enlisted service records, regardless of the 
current rating.  However, special attention should be given to the 
guidance in Chapter 7, subparagraph 9c of reference (a) and to the 
designator discrete requirements (available on the MyNavy HR LDO CWO 
Applicant Information web page). 
     h.  Applicants must meet color perception requirements. 
Defective color perception is disqualifying for appointment in the 
following designators:  611X, 612X, 618X, 620X, 626X, 629X, 636X, 
639X, 648X, 711X, 712X, 715X, 717X, 718X, 726X, 736X.  Documented 
proof of meeting color perception requirements must be submitted on 
a Chronological Record of Medical Care (SF 600) as an enclosure to 
your application. 
     i.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the 
selection and commissioning process.  Applicants who are deemed 
ineligible after submitting an application must be declared 
ineligible by their current CO or officer in charge (OIC).  A sample 
removal of recommendation format is located at 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Boards/Administrative/LDO-
CWO/.   Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicants who are deemed ineligible must be 
declared ineligible by their current CO via letter to the Nuclear Propulsion 
Program Manager (OPNAV N133). 
 
4.  Appraisal Boards (Not required for Nuclear Power LDO 620X).  AD 
interview appraisal boards will be coordinated and approved by the 
CO/OIC and consist of three AD naval officers (LDOs or CWOs 
preferred).  The names of the approved appraisal board members must 
be included in the CO/OIC endorsement.  Every effort (including 
teleconference media) should be made to ensure the senior board 
member is from the LDO or CWO designator's competitive category for 
which the applicant is applying. 
     a.  LDO Applicants.  It is highly recommended that the senior 
member of the interview panel for applicants applying for LDO be an 
in-designator commander (CDR) or above.  If not available, a LDO CDR 
or above in another designator can serve in this capacity with at 
least one board member from the designator's competitive category. 
Officers who were CDR or captain (CAPT) LDOs that converted to 
another designator via the without board action process can serve as 
the senior member.  In communities where there are no longer senior 
LDOs within the community, a CDR or CAPT from the parent community 
can act as the senior board member (e.g., a Supply Corps (3100) CDR 
or CAPT for Supply (651X) applicant). 
     b.  CWO Applicants.  It is highly recommended that the senior 
member of the interview panel for applicants applying for CWO be an 
in-designator CWO5.  If not available, a CDR (LDO preferred) or 
above can serve in this capacity with at least one board member from 
the in-designator or designator's competitive category (CWO 
preferred). 
     c.  Minimum rank requirements for board members are O3 or CWO3. 
     d.  Only three interview appraisals may be submitted for each 
applicant. 
     e.  Interview appraisal board member preparation for applicant 
appraisal boards is an important part of the board process.  Review 
of the application, review of discrete requirements for the 
applicant designator, having well thought out questions on technical 
expertise, leadership, and knowledge of the designator for which the 
candidate is applying, to include future career path if selected, 
are all great examples of board member preparation. 
     f.  The technical ability and potential blocks on the interview 
appraisal sheet must be marked for LDO and CWO candidates. 
     g.  Each appraisal must contain the names of all three-panel 
members.  Only the current version of the interviewer appraisal 
sheet will be accepted.  The interviewer appraisal sheet is located 
at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Boards/Administrative/LDO-
CWO/. 
 
5.  Application Submission.  Communication to the board (e.g., 
application, addendums, etc.) should originate from the applicant 
via their CO.  However, it is acceptable for the command to submit 
an applicant's package on his or her behalf, provided that the 
package has been endorsed by the CO and the applicant has been 
provided a copy of their entire package prior to submission. 
Information received that is not under the cover letter of the 
applicant (e.g., third-party correspondence) and endorsed by the 
command, or not received by the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) by the 
established deadline(s) will not be presented to the board. 
     a.  The application template and sample addendum letter (both 
with sample CO/OIC endorsement) are located at 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Boards/Administrative/LDO-
CWO/.  NOTE:  For board processing purposes the full social security number 
of the applicant is required on both the application and endorsement. 
     b.  All applications must include a command-endorsed LDO/CWO 
Eligibility Checklist.  The checklist is located at 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Boards/Administrative/LDO-
CWO/. 
     c.  Each applicant and CO/OIC must ensure applications and 
addendums are complete and accurate.  Incomplete applications could 
result in non-selection.  The application endorsement must be signed 
by the CO/OIC of the applicant or the *Acting* CO.  The addendum 
endorsement may be signed *By direction* if the CO or OIC is 
unavailable. 
     d.  CO/OIC endorsements must contain the following statement: 
*Applicant meets all requirements outlined in OPNAVINST 1420.1B, 
NAVADMIN 111/23, the physical fitness standards of OPNAVINST 
6110.1J, and is worldwide assignable.*  The endorsements must be on 
command letterhead.  Additionally, it must identify the members of 
the interview panel by rank and name, must be signed by the CO/OIC, 
and include the CO/OIC's command point of contact information.  A 
CO/OIC ranking is no longer required. 
     e.  Applicants must ensure a copy of their most recent periodic 
evaluation is included in the application or provided via addendum 
for board review and continuity if it is not already in the 
applicant's Official Military Personnel File (OMPF). 
     f.  Applicants are not required to include an obligatory service 
statement to remain on AD. 
     g.  Applicants currently serving in an Individual Augmentation 
Manpower Management, Global War on Terrorism Support Assignment, or 
Overseas Contingency Support Assignment may have their application 
endorsed by the field commander.  Field commanders must obtain 
parent command concurrence prior to submission. 
     h.  Applicants must submit sequentially numbered enclosures to 
the application and addendums, annotated on the bottom right corner 
of each page with the last name and full social security number of 
the applicant in the top right corner.  Addendums must include a 
command endorsement.  The FY-25 AD LDO and CWO ISPB board number is 
25181.  The FY-25 AD Nuclear LDO ISPB board number is 25182. 
     i.  Applications must be received by MNCC no later than 1 
October 2023.  Submit applications via e-mail to 
cscselboard@navy.mil.  E-mails must be encrypted using a military e- 
mail account to protect personally identifiable information (PII). 
For a tutorial on loading certificates required for encrypting e- 
mails, go to https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Officer/Active-OCM/LDO-CWO/Applicant-Information/.   
Applicants who are unable to submit applications as outlined above due to 
current operational locations may mail their application via USPS to the 
address listed below. When mailing PII, individuals must use Privacy Act Data 
Cover Sheet (DD Form 2923) and double wrap the package.  DD Form 2923 may be 
accessed by using the following web address:  
https://www.disa.mil/-/media/Files/DISA/About/Privacy-Office/dd2923.pdf 
The inner package must be labeled with the privacy warning *CUI - PRIVACY 
SENSITIVE.  Any misuse or unauthorized disclosure may result in both 
civil and criminal penalties* and use a tracking feature. 
Correspondence mailed via USPS must use the following address: 
 
Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (BUPERS-074) 
President, FY-25 Active Duty LDO/CWO In-service 
Procurement Board FY-25181 
5720 Integrity Drive 
Millington TN 38055 
 
     j.  Department of Defense Secure Access File Exchange and 
Electronic Submission of Selection Board 
(ESSBD) via BUPERS Online are not supported or authorized means to 
submit applications or addendums.  Applicants who are unable to 
submit applications as outlined in subparagraph 5.i. of this 
NAVADMIN must contact the selection board sponsor at npc_ldo- 
cwo_selbd.fct@navy.mil for alternate delivery methods. 
     k.  Mailed applications must be postmarked no later than 1 
October 2023.  Addendums to applications must be received no later 
than 15 December 2023. 
 
6.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applications must be sent to pers- 
422b_desk.fct@navy.mil.  Applications should be scanned and 
submitted via encrypted email.  Applicants who are unable to submit 
applications as outlined due to operational commitments must contact 
the selection board sponsor at nukeldo@navy.mil for alternate 
delivery methods.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) applicants will submit 
in addition to their application: 
     a.  Information applicants consider pertinent to their 
application not contained in their OMPF. 
     b.  Nuclear Power LDO (620X) E-6 applicants must submit a copy 
of their E-7 examination profile sheet as enclosure (2) to their 
application. 
     c.  Engineering Watch Supervisor or Propulsion Plant Watch 
Supervisor qualification as documented by NEC N33Z is required to 
apply for Nuclear Power LDO (620X). 
     d.  Sailors selected for Nuclear Power LDO (620X) will require a 
separate technical interview at Naval Reactors to receive a 
commission.  Sailors who do not complete a final technical interview 
will maintain their enlisted status and will not be commissioned. 
Additionally, these Sailors are ineligible to submit future 
applications to the Nuclear Power LDO (620X) program.  Technical 
interviews will be scheduled by Nuclear Placement and Assignments 
(PERS-422) and selectees notified via separate correspondence. 
 
7.  Application and Addendum Due Dates.  All non-Nuclear Power 
applications must be received encrypted by MNCC no later than 1 
October 2023.  All addendums to applications, including evaluations 
and awards, must be received no later than 15 December 2023.  Submit 
applications and addendums via encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard@navy.mil.  The time and date (Central Standard Time) 
received by MNCC inbox are the time and date used for deadline 
verification.  Applications and addendums received after the 
designated due dates will not be presented to the board.  Nuclear 
Power LDO (620X) applications must be received by pers- 
422b_desk.fct@navy.mil no later than 1 October 2023.  All Nuclear 
Power LDO addendums to applications, including 15 September 2023 E-7 
and 15 November 2023 E-6 evaluations, if not already included in the 
OMPF, must be received (or postmarked) no later than 15 December 
2023.  The time and date (Central Standard Time) received in the 
pers-422b_desk.fct@navy.mil inbox are the time and date used for 
deadline verification. 
 
8.  Board Convene Dates.  The FY-25 AD LDO and CWO ISPB and FY-25 AD 
Nuclear Power LDO ISPB will convene at dates to be determined in 
January 2024 and February 2024.  For the most current board dates, 
visit https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Boards/Selection-Board-
Support/ and select *FY-25 board schedule* when available.  NOTE:  The ESSBD 
paragraph on this web page does not apply to the LDO/CWO ISPB. 
 
9.  For additional information, current application, eligibility 
checklist, and interviewer's appraisal sheet, visit 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Boards/Administrative/LDO-
CWO/. This site also contains guidance such as how to monitor receipt of 
applications and addendums, status after PERS-803 review, and how to 
reconcile application errors via addendum if items or corrections are 
required for completeness or eligibility. 
 
10.  Points of Contact: 
     a.  For all application/addendum and eligibility questions, 
contact the ISPB Sponsor at (901) 874-3170/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
npc_ldo-cwo_selbd.fct@navy.mil. 
     b.  For general LDO/CWO career path and policy questions contact 
the LDO/CWO Officer Community Managers at (901) 874-2236/DSN 882, or 
via email at ldocwoocm.fct@navy.mil. 
     c.  For nuclear-trained Sailor application and eligibility questions, 
contact the LDO/CWO Nuclear Officer Detailer, at (901) 874-3938/DSN 882, or 
via e-mail at nukeldo@navy.mil. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2024, whichever occurs first. 
 
12.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
