UNCLASSIFIED 
ROUTINE 
R 291804Z APR 22 MID600051762833U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 109/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/APR// 
 
SUBJ/SECOND CALL FOR APPLICATIONS TO BECOME A CERTIFIED NAVY COACH// 
 
REF/A/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/281804ZSEP21// 
REF/B/DOC/DAFSLDP PWS/07132021/NOTAL// 
REF/C/DOC/SECNAV M-5216.5// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 213/21, CALL FOR APPLICATIONS TO BECOME A CERTIFIED 
NAVY COACH.   
REF B IS THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE SENIOR LEADER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT.   
REF C IS THE NAVY CORRESPONDENCE MANUAL.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications for uniformed Navy personnel who 
are also from specific commands and communities to participate in a second 
call in line with reference (a) to participate in a Department of Defense 
(DoD) Inter-Service Internal Coaching Training Program in line with reference 
(b), henceforth known as the Coaching Culture Facilitator Course (CCFC).  It 
is a rigorous 16-week virtual program (31 May 2022 through 13 September 2022) 
which will prepare participants to educate, promote and foster a coaching 
culture within their respective service.  This CCFC serves as an internal 
coaching training program offered to create internal coaches across the DoD 
to enhance the performance of every Service Member and increase warfighter 
readiness and lethality.  The CCFC provides a pathway to increase the number 
of trained coaches in each service branch.  There are 12 Navy quotas in this 
second call. 
 
2.  Description of CCFC 
    a.  The CCFC is a 16-week virtual program of instruction which provides 
80 hours of coach-specific training across a curriculum approved by the 
International Coaching Federation (ICF).  The curriculum includes 30 hours of 
coach training for a Leadership Coach Certification from Flatter, Inc., 30 
hours of additional coach training to meet the needed 60 hours required for 
application for an ICF coaching certification, 10 hours of mentor-coaching 
required for ICF certification and 10 hours of CCFC specific orientation and 
training. 
    b.  The CCFC instructional methodology is focused on providing 
experiential learning with opportunities for participants to coach other 
participants and leaders from the course.  Classes are conducted during work 
hours on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays for a total of five hours of 
training per week for the duration of the course.  Content includes lectures, 
the introduction of coaching tools and case studies.  Participants must 
attend at least 80 percent of class hours live.  Missed live classes can be 
taken asynchronously. 
 
3.  Applications must reflect a commitment to building and sustaining a Navy 
coaching culture.  The selection process will focus on personal statements 
related to interest in becoming a Navy coach, how becoming a Navy coach will 
contribute to the short-term and long-term career goals of the applicant, the 
commitment on behalf of the applicant to changing the culture of the Navy 
through coaching and how the applicant has helped someone develop a plan for 
reaching a goal. 
 
4.  Military Applicant Eligibility Criteria 
    a.  Participation is open to all active and Training and Administration 
of Reserve (TAR) - formerly called full time support - unrestricted line, 
restricted line and staff corps officers in the permanent grades of O-3 
through O-5 and chief warrant officers in the permanent grades of W-2 through 
W-4.  Enlisted participation is open to all active and TAR Sailors in the 
permanent grades of E-6 through E-8 with a minimum of three years prior to 
end of active obligated service. 
    b.  All applicants, if selected, must also have a minimum of two years 
remaining on station or have the command provide a recommendation for an 
extension to meet time on station requirements. 
    c.  Applicants must be stationed at one of the following headquarters 
commands or in a community specified below with two years remaining on 
station to be eligible for this second CCFC cohort:   
U.S. Fleet Forces (USFF),  
U.S. Pacific Fleet (PACFLT), 
Commander, Naval Air Forces/Commander, Naval Air Forces Pacific (CNAF), 
Commander, Naval Air Force Atlantic (COMNAVAIRLANT), 
Commander, Submarine Forces/Commander,  
Naval Submarine Force Atlantic (COMNAVSUBFOR/LANT),  
Commander, Submarine Forces, U.S. Pacific Fleet (COMNAVSUBPAC),  
Commander, Naval Surface Force, U.S. Pacific Fleet (COMNAVSURFOR),  
Commander, Naval Surface Force, Atlantic (COMNAVSURFLANT),  
Naval Special Warfare Command (SPECWAR), 
Navy Expeditionary Combat Command (NECC),  
Military Sealift Command (MSC),  
Bureau Of Medicine And Surgery (BUMED),  
Commander, Navy Reserve Force (RESFOR),  
Naval Education And Training Command (NETC), 
Naval Service Training Command (NSTC),  
Recruit Training Command (RTC),  
Officer Training Command (OTC),  
Naval Leadership And Ethics Center (NLEC),  
Medical Service Corps Research Psychology Community (2300/SSP 1845), and the 
Human Resources Community (1200/1207). 
 
Applicants from outside these headquarters commands or communities 
will not be considered for this second CCFC cohort. 
    d.  Certified or credentialed coaches and those with an ICF Associate, 
Professional or Master Certified Coach credential are not eligible to apply 
for the CCFC. 
    e.  Certified or credentialed coaches are asked to contact us at 
MyNavyCoaching(at)navy.mil and LCDR Greg Hiatt, 
greg.a.hiatt.mil(at)us.navy.mil so that we may track all members with this 
valuable skillset. 
 
5.  Application requirements.  Materials will be submitted via encrypted  
e-mail to LCDR Greg Hiatt, greg.a.hiatt.mil(at)us.navy.mil no later than 13 
May 2022 by 2359 Eastern Standard Time (EST) and will consist of the 
following documents: 
    a.  Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training 
(SF-182):  Applicants are required to submit an SF-182 signed by their 
training officer and supervisor.  Individual seat expenses will be covered by 
Navy Personnel Command.  Travel is not required and no travel expenses will 
be reimbursed.  An SF-182 template is available 
at: https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Talent-
Management/Coaching/  
    b.  Letter of Intent:  Applicants are required to submit a letter of 
intent with the following information: 
        (1) Last Name, First Name, MI 
        (2) Rank 
        (3) Rate or Designator 
        (4) Command 
        (5) E-mail address 
        (6) Phone Number 
        (7) Position Title, if applicable 
        (8) Location/Address 
        (9) Supervisor Name, Title, Phone Number and e-mail 
        (10) Date of last promotion 
        (11) Projected Rotation Date and/or end of active obligated service 
        (12) List and describe any prior coach training or experience to 
include relevant coaching certifications or credentials. 
        (13) Name, signature and date for both applicant and 
supervisor.  Digital signatures are acceptable. 
    c.  The letter of intent will include essay-style responses with a 
minimum of 250 words each to the following questions: 
        (1) Why are you interested in becoming a Navy Coach? 
        (2) How would becoming a Navy Coach contribute to your short-term and 
long-term career goals? 
        (3) What is your commitment to changing the culture of the Navy 
through coaching? 
        (4) Describe a prior work experience where you have helped someone 
develop a plan for reaching a goal.  How did you help them and support their 
progress to achieve the goal? 
    d.  The letter of intent will also include affirmation of the following 
statements with signature of the applicant and supervisor: 
        (1) I fully understand the requirements and time commitment of five 
hours per week for 16 weeks needed to engage in this training program. 
        (2) I agree to provide 100 hours of coaching within two years after 
completing this training.         (3) I agree to provide training to future 
Navy Coaching Program courses and MyNavy Coaching within the next two years 
after completing this training. 
        (4) I agree to submit a new supervisor agreement form to the MyNavy 
Coaching initiative if my supervisor changes for any reason. 
       e.  Commanding officer endorsement letter:  Refer to reference (c) for 
letter format.  Applicants will be required to submit a signed endorsement 
letter from their commanding officer. 
 
6.  Submission Instructions:  All documents (SF-182, letter of intent, and 
endorsement letter from the commanding officer) are required to be submitted 
via encrypted e-mail to LCDR Greg Hiatt, greg.a.hiatt.mil(at)us.navy.mil.   
The file name for the applicant package should be as follows:   
Last Name_First Name_CCFC2.  If you do not receive a confirmation e-mail 
within five business days of submission, contact the point of contact to 
confirm receipt. 
 
7.  Role of Supervisors 
    a.  Coaching is a learning and development activity and therefore is 
intended to be accomplished during normal duty hours. Supervisors are 
expected to support the on-duty participation of Service Members as much as 
possible.  Moreover, supporting Service Member participation in no way limits 
the supervisor to schedule work for the Service Member.  All coaching 
engagements must have approval from immediate supervisors to minimize 
conflicts with organizational mission priorities. 
    b.  Applicants must be volunteers and possess self-awareness, good 
listening skills, respectfulness, trustworthiness and demonstrate sensitivity 
and discretion towards the issues of others in the organization.  Applicants 
should also express encouragement and optimism in both easy and difficult 
situations and demonstrate accountability for self and others. 
    c.  Due to the limited number of seats, commands are limited to nominate 
no more than two personnel per command. 
 
8.  Selectees will be required to sign and submit the following three 
Administrative Remarks, NAVPERS 1070/613: 
    a.  CCFC Virtual Training Program Agreement, NAVPERS 1070/613 
acknowledging the program requirements during work hours from 1000-1145 EST 
on Tuesdays and Thursdays and from 1000-1130 EST on Wednesdays for a total of 
five hours of training per week for a total of 16 weeks (from 31 May 2022 
through 13 September 2022). 
    b.  Coaching Reciprocation Agreement, NAVPERS 1070/613 to acknowledge the 
applicant must provide 100 hours of coaching services to Department of the 
Navy employees over a period of two years. 
    c.  Continued Service Agreement, NAVPERS 1070/613 acknowledging the 
applicant will remain in employment of and serve in the Federal Government 
for a minimum of three years after completion of the CCFC.  The three year 
obligated service date will commence on the first day following graduation 
from the training program. 
 
9.  Timeline 
    a.  Present - 13 May 2022:  Application window open. 
    b.  13 May 2022:  Applications are due NLT 2359 EST. 
    c.  20 May 2022:  Applicants will be notified of selection status via  
e-mail. 
    d.  21 - 26 May 2022:  Selected applicants submit the three required 
documents in paragraph 8 via e-mail to the designated MyNavy Coaching POC. 
    e.  31 May 2022:  Second CCFC cohort begins. 
 
10.  Additional frequently asked questions regarding the CCFC and MyNavy 
Coaching are available at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Talent-
Management/Coaching/FAQ/. 
 
11.  Points of Contact 
    a.  MyNavy Coaching Team, (901) 874-2547/DSN 882 or via e-mail: 
MyNavyCoaching(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  LCDR Greg Hiatt, MyNavy Coaching Operations Officer, PERS- 
00TMTF, (901) 874-2547/DSN 882 or via e-mail: 
greg.a.hiatt.mil(at)us.navy.mil. 
 
12.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
13.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

