CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 311936Z AUG 23 MID600053306517U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 209/23 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N00/AUG// 
 
SUBJ/2023 OMBUDSMAN APPRECIATION DAY// 
 
RMKS/1.  September 14th is a day set aside for Navy personnel and families to 
show appreciation to command ombudsmen for their dedicated service to the 
Fleet, Fighter, and Family.  This practice goes back to the inception of the 
program in 1970, when Admiral Elmo R. Zumwalt, Jr. introduced the Navy Family 
Command Ombudsman Program via Z-Gram 24.  For over 50 years, the dedicated 
volunteers of this important program have been making a difference.  As we 
approach the anniversary of the Ombudsman Program, let us take a few moments 
to review the value of a command ombudsman and the benefits of the Ombudsman 
Program. 
 
2.  The contribution ombudsmen make to the success of the command's mission 
is immeasurable.  Their efforts in supporting Navy families enable Sailors 
and commands to focus on mission requirements, all while knowing families 
have a trained and reliable resource to provide support on the home front. 
 
3.  To our Ombudsmen:  Your diligence and steadfast commitment are 
unmatched.  Your key line of communication between the command and families 
ensures they have access to trusted support and referral services that are 
essential to family readiness.  Although families may experience uncertain 
times or crisis events in their lives, you continue to bring compassion 
through your communication and ensure families feel supported at all 
times.  When families receive information, resources, support and assistance 
to better navigate their circumstances, it increases overall resiliency and 
makes them better equipped to navigate the military lifestyle with greater 
strength.  On behalf of all Navy families, thank you for your service! 
 
4.  Commanders:  You have an important role in ensuring your ombudsmen are 
ready to serve and are successful.  Commanders shall communicate with their 
ombudsmen regularly to gauge command families' morale, health, and welfare 
and to share command information that is relevant to our Navy families. 
OPNAVINST 1750.1G CH-2 directs commands to provide an updated roster of 
command family members in order to relay official information directly 
related to family readiness. 
 
5.  Additionally, commanders must ensure that the Ombudsman Registry is 
maintained and updated as changes occur.  Ombudsman Monthly/Quarterly 
Worksheets should be uploaded by the prescribed due dates to reflect the hard 
work being done by your ombudsmen.  And last but certainly not least, 
commanders should attend local Ombudsman Assembly Meetings with your command 
ombudsmen in order to demonstrate a strong and cohesive command 
unit.  Commanders should make every effort to support their ombudsmen by 
fulfilling all requirements as set forth in OPNAVINST 1750.1G CH-2. 
 
6.  Ombudsman Coordinators:  You serve as a valuable resource to ombudsmen 
and commanding officers.  Your guidance and understanding of the Ombudsman 
Program provide a firm foundation to all who are affiliated with the 
program.  Thank you for your service. 
 
7.  Navy team:  Please take the opportunity to express well-deserved 
appreciation and gratitude to these selfless volunteers who are so crucial to 
the success of our Navy.  Make every effort to recognize your ombudsmen at 
this special time of year! 
 
8.  Additional information about the Ombudsman Program is available at 
https://www.ffsp.navy.mil. 
 
9.  Released by ADM L. M. Franchetti, Acting Chief of Naval Operations.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
