UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 272055Z OCT 21 MID600051092348U
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 242/21
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/OCT//
 
SUBJ/2021 ARMY-NAVY GAME SPIRIT SPOTS//
 
POC/Mr. Paul Taylor/CHINFO OI-2/TEL: (703) 614-9154/E-MAIL:
WILLIAM.P.TAYLOR.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL or Mr. Oscar Sosa/E-MAIL:
OSCAR.L.SOSA.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//
 
RMKS/1.  This year's Army-Navy game is scheduled for Saturday, 11 December 
2021 at MetLife Stadium (East Rutherford, NJ).  CBS Sports will televise the 
game and will once again accept "Go Navy, Beat Army" video spots from the 
Navy and Marine Corps.  CBS will consider spot submissions forwarded by the 
Navy Office of Information (CHINFO) for broadcast during the game.
    a.  There is no guarantee CBS will use your video.  You will have to 
watch the game to find out.  If your video does not make it into the 
broadcast, it may still be played on the stadium's video boards at the game.
    b.  CHINFO and Defense Media Activity (DMA) will also push selected 
spirit spots to a variety of media outlets, flagship web and broadcast 
platforms, and social media sites prior to the game to help generate esprit 
de corps and as away of highlighting our naval forces.
 
2.  Requirements and best practices:
    a.  All spirit spots must be submitted from a Navy or Marine Corps 
activity.
    b.  Public release of spirit spots is not permitted until 6 December 
2021.
    c.  Include the submitting command's name and location.
    d.  We want videos to help connect the American public with their
    Navy.  Highlight why the Navy and Marine Corps are important to our 
nation by showing:
        (1) Forward deployment/active role in world affairs, global security 
and national economic prosperity.
        (2) Development of strong leaders.
        (3) Humanitarian and disaster relief initiatives.
        (4) The unique opportunity to experience challenge and adventure at 
sea and around the world.
    e.  Avoid use of naval or military jargon or acronyms.
    f.  Do not submit group/command/formation shout outs in which a group is
    shouting a message.  The audience will not understand what you are 
saying.
    g.  Make sure video has clean, clear audio and shows enthusiasm, humor,
    creativity, and motivation.
    h.  Inclusion of Naval Academy graduates, unique locations, forward 
deployed locations, and underway scenes are good.  Highlighting new platforms 
and unique naval capabilities is also desirable.
    i.  Do not include copyrighted material or music, or sensitive material,
    make any official or implied endorsements, or present commands or the 
Navy in a negative light.
    j.  Spots should be broadcast quality in one of the following file 
formats:
        (1) Files should be at least 8 MB/S but no more than 100 MB/S and in
        MXF, MPEG, WMV, MP4, MOV, or AVI file formats.
        (2) M4V, FLY, and SWF files are not accepted.
        (3) Include a Word document with the submitters points of contact, a
        suggested title, description, and release authority.
        (4) All submissions must be high definition (1920x1080, 1280x720) or
        Ultra-High Definition (4k).
   k.  If you want your video considered for CBS broadcast, it must be 29 
seconds or 59 seconds in length.  Spots intended for social media or other
web only outlets should not be longer than two minutes.
   l.  Submit only ready-to-air spots.  Neither CBS nor CHINFO will do your 
post production editing.
   m.  Frame shots according to rules of good composition (avoid talking 
heads with no bodies) and avoid distracting backgrounds and inadvertent 
commercial product placement.
   n.  Good audio quality and sharp focus are both important.  Videos with 
poor sound quality or that are not in focus will be rejected.  Check for over
modulated audio, weak audio, unclear voices or background noise.
 
3.  Leverage Public Affairs experts, support from Navy Public Affairs Support
Elements, DMA detachments or broadcast detachments available on a not-to
interfere with operational requirements basis.
 
4.  Commands should submit videos by electronic means, express shipment or
fastest method available to the CHINFO (OI-2).  Submissions must be received
before 6 December 2021.  Late submissions will not be accepted.  Please 
consider shipping times (force protection screening at the Pentagon can take
five days for any shipment) for overseas and deployed units: 

   a.  Send via mail to:
US NAVY OFFICE OF INFORMATION OI-2
ATTN:  MR. PAUL TAYLOR
1200 NAVY PENTAGON RM 4B463
WASHINGTON DC 20350-1200. 

   b.  Submit videos electronically via a shared google drive, or via DOD CAC
   enabled platforms such as DOD Safe (Secure Access File Exchange) service
located at HTTPS://SAFE.APPS.MIL.
   c.  Do not post submissions to DVIDS.  Videos on DVIDS are public upon
   upload.  Please be aware that this will violate the rules (refer to 2b).
   d.  Email POC with the subject line Army-Navy Submission for any questions
   related to file transfer information and assistance.
 
5.  Request widest possible dissemination of this message.  Lets highlight 
Navy teamwork and the spirit of our Sailors and Marines forward deployed 
around the world.  Go Navy, Beat Army!
 
6.  Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information.
 
BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
