ROUTINE 
R 051730Z AUG 22 MID200080082511U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 177/22 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/AUG// 
 
SUBJ/SUBMARINE COMMANDING OFFICER SPECIAL MISSION RETENTION BONUS// 
 
REF/A/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/302340ZAUG10// 
REF/B/DOC/USC//18JUN22// 
REF/C/DOC/DOD/11JUL16// 
REF/D/DOC/03JUN22// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 293/10, SUBMARINE SUPPORT INCENTIVE PAY PROGRAM.   
REF B IS TITLE 37 U.S. CODE, GENERAL BONUS AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS.   
REF C IS DoDI 1304.34, GENERAL BONUS AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS.   
REF D IS THE ASN(M and RA) MEMORANDUM, DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO ADMINISTER 
COMMANDING OFFICER SPECIAL MISSION RETENTION BONUS. 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN cancels reference (a) and provides guidance 
for the submarine commanding officer special mission retention bonus 
(COSM RB).  The COSM RB is authorized by references (b) through (d). 
Effective immediately, the COSM RB program replaces the commanding 
officer submarine support retention bonus (COSS RB) program. 
Existing COSS RB contracts will be honored. 
 
2.  COSM RB will be a written agreement, conditional upon acceptance 
by Navy Personnel Command, Submarine and Nuclear Officer 
Distribution (PERS-42) to remain on Active Duty as an officer for a 
period of three, four, or five years beyond the date of acceptance. 
The COSM RB will provided 20,000 dollar annual payments. 
 
3.  Officers applying for COSM RB must: 
    a.  Be on Active Duty and entitled to receive basic pay. 
    b.  Have completed at least 19 years of Active Duty Commissioned 
Service (ADCS) and not more than 25 years of ADCS at the start of 
the period of additional obligated service. 
    c.  Not extend obligated service beyond 28 years of commissioned 
service (YCS). 
    d.  Possess the 1120 designator and be previously nuclear 
trained as an officer. 
    e.  Be serving in paygrades O-5 or O-6 (not eligible until the 
date of promotion to O-5). 
    f.  Have served or be serving in a billet designated as COSM. 
    g.  Not have a pending or approved resignation or retirement 
request, lateral transfer request, or application to programs which 
will result in a change of designator, such as the permanent 
military professor (PMP) program. 
    h.  Be medically qualified for assignment to submarine community 
cognizant billets (1120 and 1000/1050 coded) worldwide. 
    i.  Not have investigations, punitive administrative actions, 
detachment for cause proceedings, or legal actions in progress or 
completed. 
    j.  Not be eligible for a continuation bonus under nuclear 
officer incentive pay. 
    k.  Not have lost nuclear additional qualification designator 
due to refusal of any nuclear assignment (including submarine 
commanding officer). 
    l.  Not be under any education or training associated service 
obligation except as authorized by reference (c).  Officers within 
one year of completion of an existing obligation may apply for COSM 
RB to begin at the end of their current obligation. 
 
4.  Upon acceptance of a COSM RB application, officers will incur a 
three, four, or five-year service obligation.  The COSM RB will be 
paid in equal annual installments at the start of each year covered 
by the agreement. 
    a.  The service obligation for officers whose applications are 
accepted by PERS-42 prior to the end of their existing service 
obligation will run from the expiration of their existing service 
obligation.  Annual installments will begin upon the expiration of 
their existing service obligation. 
    b.  The service obligation for officers whose applications are 
accepted by PERS-42 after the expiration of any existing service 
obligation will run from the date of acceptance by PERS-42.  Annual 
installments will begin upon the date of acceptance by PERS-42. 
    c.  There is no provision for a lump sum payment. 
    d.  In no case will an officer receive more than 300,000 dollars 
in payments authorized by reference (c) in their officer career. 
 
5.  Eligible officers who sign up for a COSM RB contract may 
renegotiate a new COSM RB contract at the same rate on the upcoming 
anniversary date of their current contract or to align their 
anniversary date with their commissioning date, as long as the 
period of the new contract will be equal to or exceed the remaining 
period of the officers existing contract, and does not extend beyond 
28 YCS.  Upon acceptance of a new COSM RB contract, the existing 
COSM RB contract will be cancelled, effective on the day before the 
next anniversary date. 
 
6.  Assignment.  Officers who receive a COSM RB will be assigned 
according to the needs of the submarine force (for officers of their 
qualification and experience) without affecting their eligibility 
for receipt of this special pay. 
 
7.  Recoupment.  Repayment guidance will be in line with reference 
(b), Section 373, DoD FMR, Volume 7a, Chapter 2, and the following 
program specific guidance: 
    a.  In the event an officer who has received a COSM RB fails to 
maintain eligibility as set forth in paragraph 3 or fails to 
complete the total period of Active Duty specified in the agreement, 
no further annual payments will be made, and recoupment of unearned 
portions of the COSM RB will be required on a pro-rata basis. 
Examples of such situations requiring recoupment are: 
        (1) Approved request for voluntary release from the written 
agreement if, due to unusual circumstances, it is determined by 
PERS-42 that such release would be clearly in the best interests of 
both the U.S. Navy and the officer concerned. 
        (2) Approved voluntary request for relief from the current 
assignment. 
        (3) Refusal to accept orders. 
        (4) Disability or death resulting from misconduct or willful 
neglect, or incurred during a period of unauthorized absence. 
        (5) Misconduct. 
        (6) Approved detachment for cause. 
        (7) Promotion to pay grade O-7 . 
        (8) Selection for lateral transfer into another community, 
including the PMP program. 
    b.  If, for any of the following reasons, the officer fails to 
maintain eligibility for the COSM RB, as set forth in paragraph 3, 
or fails to complete the full period of additional obligated 
service, no further payments will be made, and recoupment of 
unearned portions of the incentive already made will not be 
required. 
        (1) Separation from the naval service by operation of laws 
independent of misconduct. 
        (2) Where PERS-42, hereby delegated wavering authority, 
determines that waiving the requirement to recoup payments is 
clearly in the best interest of the United States. 
        (3) Separation from the naval service under a hardship 
separation or sole survivorship discharge as defined under section 
373(b)(3)(b) of reference (b). 
    c.  If, for any of the following reasons, the officer fails to 
maintain eligibility for the COSM RB as set forth in paragraph 3, 
recoupment of the unearned portions of incentive will not be sought, 
and any remaining unpaid portions of COSM RB due the member shall be 
paid. 
        (1) Death.  In the event an officer serving under a COSM RB 
contract dies (not as the result of misconduct or willful neglect) 
before receiving the full amount of the bonus due, the remaining 
unpaid installments are payable as a lump sum for inclusion in the 
settlement of the deceased officers final military pay account. 
        (2) Disability.  In the event of an injury or illness that 
results in the member being separated or retired for a disability 
incurred in the line of duty in a combat zone designated by the 
President of the United States or the Secretary of Defense, in a 
combat-related operation designated by the Secretary of Defense, or 
involves a combat-related disability as defined section 1413A(E) of 
title 10, U.S. Code, and is not the result of misconduct or willful 
neglect. 
 
8.  Submission of applications.  Eligible officers may submit applications  
to PERS-42.  A sample of this application may be found on the PERS-42 
website https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Detailing/Officer/Pers-42-Submarine/. 
 
9.  PERS-42, acting for the Chief of Naval Personnel, will: 
    a.  Determine the eligibility of candidates for COSM RB. 
    b.  Accept written agreements on behalf of the Secretary of the 
Navy from eligible officers who agree to remain on Active Duty for 
the specified time period. 
    c.  Administer the COSM RB program pursuant to this NAVADMIN. 
 
10.  Questions regarding COSM RB should be directed to Navy 
Personnel Command (PERS-42MP) at (901) 874-3934/DSN 884 or e-mail 
PERS-42MP_desk.fct(at)navy.mil. 
 
11.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
12.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
