UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 241754Z JAN 22 MID200001407307U
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 010/22

SUBJ/ANNUAL CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FROM QUALIFIED NAVY PERSONNEL FOR THE 
ADVANCED MILITARY VISUAL JOURNALISM TRAINING PROGRAM 2022//
 
POC/MCCM MICHAEL LEWIS/CHINFO SEA/LOC:  WASHINGTON DC/TEL:  COMM:  (703) 692
-4704/DSN: 222-4704/EMAIL:  MICHAEL.B.LEWIS3.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  The Navy is soliciting applications from Mass Communication 
Specialists (MC) for the Advanced Military Visual Journalism (AMVJ) training 
program for academic year 2022-2023.  Class reporting date for both courses 
is tentatively scheduled for 25 July 2022 with a projected graduation date of 
12 May 2023.  We are running a graphics-heavy pilot program this year as 
well.  Specific portfolio requirements are in paragraph 2d.  Applicants may 
apply to all three programs by submitting the appropriate portfolio as 
outlined in paragraphs 2c. and d.

2.  Applications must be submitted no later than 4 March 2022.  For complete
directions and guidance for electronic submission, contact POC listed above 
and in paragraph 7.  Applications must include the following:
    a.  A command endorsement on letterhead summarizing the candidate's
    qualifications, including a statement certifying the portfolio is the 
sole work of the applicant and recommendation for candidate's acceptance in 
the program.  Parent commands are responsible for eligibility verification of 
endorsed candidates and submission of applicable waivers.  Waivers of 
prerequisites (e.g., TIS, PG, TOS, etc.) will be considered on a case-by-case 
basis.  Commanding Officers should address applicant's maturity, ability to 
work independently, financial security, and academic ability when 
recommending
    a nominee, particularly when requesting waivers.
    b.  An essay explaining why a candidate is interested in the AMVJ
    program.  Essay should include motivations, influences, expectations, and 
post-course desires.
    c.  A portfolio demonstrating sufficient technical ability to 
successfully complete the course.  An applicant must submit a portfolio with 
communication products from across the full-spectrum of media disciplines.  
Candidates must submit a portfolio consisting of eight examples of their 
work.  Portfolio must contain the following:
        (1) One writing product from the Individual Writing category.
        (2) Two video products from the Individual Video category.
        (3) Four photo products from the Individual Photo category (must have
one picture story and one portrait personality and two photos from the any
        other Individual Photo category).
        (4) One graphic design product from any of the Individual Graphic 
Design categories.
    d.  Graphics pilot program portfolio requirements.  Candidates must 
submit a portfolio consisting of seven examples of their work.  Portfolio 
must contain the following:
        (1) One animation product.
        (2) Two layout and design products.
        (3) Two digital art products.
        (4) One identity design product.
        (5) One writing product from the Individual Writing category.
    e.  Each product must follow the rules listed in the category 
descriptions found within the standard operating procedure for the Navy Media 
Awards.
    f.  Applicants are required to provide a biography as part of the 
submission process.  The biography is not part of the selection process but 
will be used to identify and introduce the selectees to the faculty and staff 
at the University if selected.  No biography photo required.

3.  Prior to acceptance to the program and distribution of orders, applicants 
must:
    a.  Be approved to reenlist or extend in the MC Rating through June 2026.
    b.  Not reach high year tenure before June 2026.
    c.  Have a command endorsed 1306.
    d.  Be within physical fitness assessment standards to include no PFA
    failures in the past three years.
    e.  Not have any civil or Non-Judicial Punishment violations in the past
    three years.

4.  Course scope, prerequisites and portfolio requirements are found in 
CANTRAC, which can be accessed via the Navy Education and Training Command 
website at https://www.netc.navy.mil/.  Click on the CANTRAC icon at the 
bottom of the webpage and search for course information using either Course 
Identification Number listed in paragraph 1 or the title, Advanced Military 
Visual Journalism.

5.  Applicants in their orders window, and not yet selected for orders, must 
contact the detailer with your intentions.  Applicants who have executed 
orders and are en route to their next command are not eligible.  Navy 
Personnel Command has the final approval prior to final selection.

6.  The selection board will convene in mid-March 2022.  Selectees will be 
notified via Naval message no later than 8 April 2022.

7.  Point of contact is MCCM Michael Lewis who can be reached by email at
michael.b.lewis3.mil(AT)us.navy.mil or by phone at (703) 692-4704.

8.  Contact Master Chief Lewis directly for the submission process.

9.  Request widest dissemination.

10.  Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

