CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 252004Z SEP 23 MID120000477112U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 232/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/FY24 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY LEADERSHIP EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
MASTERS PROGRAM// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces application procedures for the Fiscal Year 
(FY) 2024 Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) master's program.  The 
United States Naval Academy (USNA) is seeking applications from motivated, 
academically, and professionally qualified unrestricted line and information 
warfare officers for the FY24 LEAD master's program.  Selected officers will 
serve as both company officers and role models for our future naval 
officers.  The USNA LEAD master's program is a unique opportunity for junior 
officers to participate in a 36-month graduate education and leadership 
experience.  The program combines a fully-funded master's degree in 
leadership education and development from the Naval Postgraduate School, with 
a required two-year follow-on commitment as a company officer at USNA in 
Annapolis, MD.  Officers attend distance learning classes at the USNA. 
 
2.  Additional information can be found on the USNA website at 
https://www.usna.edu/LEAD/Lead-Masters-Program/index.php. 
 
3.  Community specific eligible year groups (YG) and additional eligibility 
requirements follow: 
    a.  Surface Warfare 
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG20 surface warfare qualified officers who have 
demonstrated superior performance at sea, have screened for department head 
(DH) afloat, and who have the career timing to support a 36-month shore duty 
assignment prior to their 7.5-year mark of commissioned service.  Select YG19 
surface warfare officers may be eligible depending on career timing and 
current shore duty assignment.  Nuclear trained officers are also eligible, 
however, due to the specific nature of their career timing, it is understood 
that they will rotate earlier than 36 months for DH school timing. 
All YG19 and YG20 officers should contact their respective Surface Warfare 
Officer Assignment Division (PERS-41) junior officer detailer to determine 
their timeline to DH school. 
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations via the 
PERS-41 talent management board.  PERS-41 junior officer detailers will 
assist the nominated officers with their online nomination package 
submission.  All talent management board details will be announced via 
separate correspondence and support the timeline defined in this NAVADMIN. 
        (3) A DH retention bonus contract must be submitted immediately upon 
selection for the LEAD program.  DH school attendance and the successful 
completion of two DH tours as defined by PERS-41 is required following the 
completion of USNA assignment. 
    b.  Submarine: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG19 and 20. 
        (2) Submarine Office Distribution Division (PERS-42) will review all 
applications and recommend for selection top performing officers who can meet 
submarine officers advanced course (SOAC) gate at 7.5 years of commissioned 
service.  SOAC attendance and completion of a DH tour is required following 
completion of USNA assignment. 
        (3) Eligible officers will compete for nominations via the PERS-42 
talent management board.  Application materials required for the talent 
management board are listed in paragraph four. 
        (4) A Nuclear officer bonus contract must be submitted immediately 
upon selection.  SOAC attendance and the successful completion of a DH tour 
as defined by PERS-42 is required following the completion of USNA 
assignment. 
    c.  Aviation: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG17-18 (eligible for first shore tour). 
        (2) Eligible officers will compete for USNA LEAD nominations via an 
USNA run talent management board.  Primary criteria utilized for selection 
will be past performance, qualifications, career timing, and community 
needs.  Interested officers should contact their respective Aviation Officer 
Distribution (PERS-43) detailer for assistance with nomination package 
submission. 
    d.  Special Warfare: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  No restriction. 
        (2) Prospective applicants must be screened by the DH board and 
education panel and have signed the naval special warfare officer 
continuation pay.  Applicants meeting these criteria will compete for Naval 
Special Warfare Division (PERS-415) nominations based on their performance, 
academic qualifications, and suitability for the program. 
    e.  Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD): 
        (1) Eligible YG:  YG16-18. 
        (2) Prospective applicants must have completed an EOD company 
commander tour, be administratively board screened for EOD DH, and signed the 
EOD warfare officer retention bonus.  Applicants meeting these criteria will 
compete for EOD Officer Assignment and Placement Division (PERS-416) 
nominations based on their performance, academic qualifications, and 
suitability for the program. 
f.  Information Warfare: 
        (1) Eligible YG:  No restriction. 
        (2) Prospective applicants will compete for USNA LEAD nominations via 
the Information Warfare Community (PERS-47) talent management board.  Primary 
criteria utilized for selection will be past performance, qualifications, 
career timing, and community needs.  Interested officers should contact their 
respective PERS-47 detailer for assistance with nomination package 
submission. 
 
4.  Interested officers must: 
    a.  Complete an application and forward to respective detailer. 
A sample can be found at  
https://www.usna.edu%2FLEAD%2FLead-Masters-Program/LEAD-Program-
Application.php.  The application package must include: 
        (1) Completed application page (PDF fillable version found at the 
website above). 
        (2) Personal statement that specifically addresses the reason for the 
application to the LEAD program, how the program fits into your career goals, 
and your expectations with respect to the program. 
        (3) Biography (following the format provided at the website above). 
        (4) All higher education transcripts. 
        (5) Chain of command endorsement (required). 
        (6) Additional professional and academic letters of recommendation 
(desired, not required). 
        (7) Copy of performance summary report, officer summary record, and 
last five fitness reports. 
    b.  Communicate intentions to apply for this program to the cognizant 
detailer to ensure adequate career timing.  All applications will be vetted 
through detailers to verify career timing impact. 
 
5.  Applications are due to Doctoral Studies Program Screening Board (PERS-
443) no later than 1 October 2023.  If applying to a community specific 
talent management board, please adhere to community guidelines. 
 
6.  Point of contact is LT Jacob Jepsen (PERS-443), at (901) 874- 3996/DSN 
882, or via e-mail at jacob.a.jepsen.mil@us.navy.mil. 
 
7.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
