CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 251909Z SEP 23 MID120000476967U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 231/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2024 JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT 
PROGRAM SELECTION BOARD// 
 
REF/A/DOC/JAG/23JUL20// 
AMPN/REF A IS PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION 111A, THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S CORPS 
(JAGC) IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT PROGRAM (JAGC IPP).// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the convening of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 
Judge Advocate Generals Corps (JAGC) In-service Procurement Program (IPP) 
selection board no earlier than February 2024.  The JAGC IPP provides 
outstanding, career-motivated enlisted personnel of all ratings, who meet the 
eligibility criteria, the opportunity to earn a commission in the JAGC.  The 
FY24 board will accept applications for the funded legal education option 
(FLEO) and the direct commission option (DCO). 
 
2.  This program is open to Active Duty enlisted Sailors and Navy Training 
and Administration of the Reserves personnel in any rating or military 
occupational specialty in paygrades E-5 through E-7 at the time of the 
application.  DCO applicants must have served on Active Duty for a period of 
no less than 2 years and no more than 10 years at the time of 
commissioning.  FLEO applicants must have served on Active Duty for a period 
of no less than four years and no more than eight years at the time legal 
training begins.  Members of the individual ready reserve or serving on 
Active Duty for operational support, Active Duty for training or one to three 
year recalls are not eligible for this program.  FLEO applicants selected 
for the program must begin legal training no later than September 2024 and 
prior to the eighth anniversary of their Active Duty commencement 
date.  Legal training in the program commences as of the date of reporting 
for duty under instruction at the unit to which the enlisted Sailor is 
assigned while attending law school. 
The enlisted Sailor is not required to begin law school courses by this 
date.  All time-in-service and paygrade requirements are statutory and cannot 
be waived. 
 
3.  Reference (a) provides information on authorized program benefits, 
eligibility, obligated service and program requirements. 
Where information differs between this NAVADMIN and reference (a), this 
NAVADMIN takes precedence. 
 
4.  Application procedures are provided in reference (a) and this NAVADMIN.   
All applicants and endorsing commands should fully read this NAVADMIN, 
reference (a) and application guides.  All references are available 
at https://www.jag.navy.mil. 
 
5.  Applicants must not have reached their 42nd birthday by the time they 
commission.  This requirement cannot be waived. 
 
6.  Amplifying education information for the FY24 board. 
    a.  Law School Admission Test (LSAT) exam score reports are required for 
all applicants.  LSAT score reports may be submitted via separate 
correspondence after the deadline, but must be received by 15 January 2024.   
Website screenshots of LSAT scores will not be accepted unless an official 
score report is not available to LSAT FLEX test takers. 
    b.  All applicants must hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited 
institution at the time of the application deadline. 
Applicants must submit their official or unofficial transcripts for all 
degrees earned and a complete list of all schools attended. 
    c.  Applicants applying to the FLEO must provide a prioritized list of 
U.S. law schools accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) to which 
the applicant has applied or plans to apply. Applicants are encouraged to 
apply to more than one school. Applicants are encouraged to apply only to 
schools listed on the approved Education Service Agreement (ESA) list which 
may be found at https://www.jag.navy.mil/careers/lawyers/nps-esa-approved-
schools. Applicants must apply to at least one law school in which in-state 
tuition and fees can be obtained, one law school near the applicant's current 
duty station, one law school located in a Fleet concentration area (i.e., 
Norfolk, VA, Jacksonville/Mayport, FL, San Diego, CA, Pearl Harbor, HI, 
Bremerton, WA or Washington, DC), and one ESA approved law 
school.  Applicants may be denied permission to attend non-ESA approved 
schools.  Applicants are required to apply to at least one law school before 
the IPP board in February 2024, but are strongly encouraged to apply to law 
schools before the IPP application deadline.  Applicants must provide a copy 
of any acceptance letters received prior to the convening of the selection 
board. 
    d.  Applicants applying for the DCO must have obtained a law degree 
(juris doctor) from a law school considered by the ABA to be accredited under 
provisions established by the ABA at the time of their graduation from the 
law school. 
    e.  Applicants for the DCO must submit a current letter or certificate of 
good standing from the licensing authority admitting the applicant to the 
practice of law before a federal court or the highest court of a state, a 
U.S. territory, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico or the District of Columbia. 
    f.  All applicants must obtain a conditional release from their 
enlisted community manager (ECM).  To obtain a conditional release, 
an applicant must submit enlisted personnel action request (NAVPERS 
1306/7) to their ECM or detailer as appropriate.  The FY24 JAGC-IPP 
selection board will only consider enlisted candidates who have a 
conditional release included in their program application. 
 
7.  Applicants must submit their application electronically via 
Department of Defense (DoD) Secure Access File Exchange (SAFE) 
(https://safe.apps.mil) to NavyJAGAccessions@us.navy.mil no later than 2359 
Eastern Standard Time Friday, 15 December 2023. Applicants or their command 
may submit the completed application. Once submitted via DoD SAFE, the 
submitter of the application must e-mail NavyJAGAccessions@us.navy.mil to 
provide notification of the submission, the DoD SAFE file download password 
and a command point of contact for follow up information.  If an applicant 
requires an exception to the e-submission policy due to operational 
restrictions, please contact (202) 685-8580 or NavyJAGAccessions@us.navy.mil  
prior to 20 November 2023.  LSAT score reports and law school acceptance 
letters may be submitted via separate correspondence after the deadline, but 
must be received by 15 January 2024.  No other additional or amplifying 
information will be accepted after the deadline.  Incomplete applications 
will not be reviewed by the board.  Applicants will be notified directly of 
board results four to six weeks following the convening of the selection 
board. 
 
8.  In line with reference (a), prior to submitting a completed application, 
applicants are required to complete a structured interview with the 
JAGC.  Structured interviews will be conducted in line with policy 
established by the Judge Advocate General. Instructions for scheduling a 
structured interview may be found at https://www.jag.navy.mil. 
This requirement is separate from and in addition to the command interview. 
 
9.  Point of contact is the Office of the Judge Advocate General Accessions 
Program Manager and can be reached at (202) 685-8580/DSN 325 or via e-mail 
at NavyJAGAccessions@us.navy.mil. 
 
10.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
