CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 162016Z MAY 23 MID120000084874U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 115/23 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2025 NAVY SELECTED RESERVE LIMITED DUTY OFFICER AND CHIEF 
WARRANT OFFICER IN-SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD// 
 
REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09// 
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/12APR16// 
REF/C/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18// 
 
NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.   
REF B IS OPNAVINST 1120.12A, APPOINTMENT OF LIMITED DUTY OFFICERS AND CHIEF 
WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE NAVY RESERVE.   
REF C IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL OF 
THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE. 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of applications from highly 
qualified and motivated E-6 through E-9 Reserve Sailors for the Fiscal Year 
(FY) 2025 Navy Selected Reserve Limited Duty Officer (LDO) and Chief Warrant 
Officer (CWO) programs.  Where conflicts with reference (a) exist, this 
NAVADMIN takes precedence. 
 
2.  The FY-25 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO In-Service Procurement Board 
(ISPB) will consider candidates for the following officer designators:  623X, 
626X, 628X, 629X, 633X, 641X, 649X, 653X, 711X, 712X, 713X, 715X, 717X, 718X, 
781X, 782X and 783X. Eligible Sailors are encouraged to apply for the 
designators for which they are most qualified, regardless of current 
rating.  Refer to references (a) through (c) for eligibility criteria.  NOTE: 
Current Reserve CWOs that desire to transition into the LDO community are no 
longer supported and will be disapproved if an application is received. 
 
3.  FY-25 guidance. 
     a.  Time-in-service (TIS) for the FY-25 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and 
CWO ISPB must be computed to 1 October 2024.  In line with references (a) and 
(b), TIS is synonymous with years of qualifying service toward a non-regular 
(Reserve) retirement. 
     b.  TIS eligibility is 8 to 14 years for LDO and 14 to 20 years for CWO 
applicants.  TIS waivers will be considered and adjudicated on a case-by-case 
basis by Director, Military Personnel Plans and Policy (OPNAV 
N13).  Potential applicants outside of the TIS eligibility window are 
encouraged to contact the Reserve LDO/CWO Officer Community Manager (OCM) in 
paragraph 10b of this NAVADMIN to discuss TIS waiver opportunities.  All LDO 
applicants must be able to serve at least 6 years of qualifying service and 
complete 20 years of qualifying service prior to 62 years of age.  All CWO 
applicants must be able to complete 20 years of qualifying service prior to 
reaching 62 years of age.  Applicants must also not reach or exceed high year 
tenure for their present pay grade within the calendar year the application 
is submitted.  TIS waivers for less than 8 years for LDO and less than 14 
years for CWO will not be considered.  No further exceptions to listed 
eligibility requirements in references (a) and (c) will be considered.  All 
requests for TIS waivers shall be submitted to the RC LDO/CWO OCM and PERS-92 
contacts listed below and must be received not later than 1 August 2023.  TIS 
waiver requests and Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO applications are two 
separate processes with their own respective deadlines.  Failure to follow 
this guidance and the timelines provided will result in a subsequent 
disapproval of the requested TIS waiver.  The TIS waiver template is 
available at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Officer/Reserve-OCM/Selected-Reservists/RC-LDO-CWO/.   
NOTE:  The TIS waiver approval letter must also be submitted as an enclosure 
to the application. 
     c.  Contingency plan for late E-7 results, if results are not released 
prior to application deadline:  Due to the FY-24 Enlisted Selection Board 
schedule, E-6s awaiting E-7 results to apply for CWO are encouraged to apply 
and submit their application not later than 1 October 2023 with the following 
guidelines: 
     (1) Commands are directed to proceed with the application 
process for these applicants as outlined in this NAVADMIN. 
     (2) E-6s awaiting E-7 selection results must add the following statement 
at the beginning of the commanding officer's (CO) endorsement:  *Member is 
awaiting  results.* 
Commander, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-92) will set aside these 
applications until E-7 results are announced. 
     (3) E-6 evaluations due 15 November 2023 will be submitted as an 
addendum in the guidelines of this NAVADMIN.  If a Sailor is selected for E-7 
and the pinning date is after 15 November 2023 and the Sailor has already 
received an E-6 periodic evaluation, the close-out evaluation is not required 
to be submitted as an addendum. Submit the close-out evaluation as an 
addendum if an E-6 periodic was not received.  Once all E-7 results are 
announced, PERS-92 will integrate or remove those records and applications 
accordingly. 
 d.  Eligible Sailors are encouraged to apply for the designator for which 
they have extensive documented technical expertise and leadership experience 
in their enlisted service records, regardless of current rating.  However, 
special attention should be given to the guidance in Chapter 7, subparagraph 
9c of reference (a) and to the designator discrete requirements.  For the 
most current copy of the discrete requirements, refer to the instructions in 
paragraph 9. 
     e.  In line with reference (b), all LDO applicants must include a 
statement in the additional comments section (paragraph 2) of the 
application, agreeing to further service, as follows:  "I, [name], if 
selected for permanent appointment under the Navy Reserve LDO program, agree 
to accept such appointment and further agree to remain in the Ready Reserve 
for a period of 3 years after I accept such appointment." 
     f.  In line with reference (b), all CWO applicants must include a 
statement in the additional comments section (paragraph 2) of the 
application, agreeing to further service, as follows:  "I, [name], 
if selected for permanent appointment under the Navy Reserve CWO 
program, agree to accept such appointment and further agree to 
remain in the Ready Reserve for a period of 6 years after I accept 
such appointment." 
     g.  CO or Officer-in-Charge (OIC) endorsement must contain the 
following statement:  "Applicant meets all requirements outlined in 
OPNAVINST 1420.1B, OPNAVINST 1120.12A, NAVADMIN 115/23, and the physical 
fitness standards of OPNAVINST 6110.1J."  The endorsement should also clearly 
state the command and CO's/OIC's name and rank. 
 
4.  Interview appraisal boards shall be constructed and approved by the 
CO/OIC and consist of only three Reserve or Active component officers.  The 
names of the approved appraisal board members must be included in the CO/OIC 
endorsement.  To the maximum extent possible, LDOs or CWOs shall be utilized 
as board members.  The senior member of the interview panel must be a 
lieutenant commander or above. 
     a.  Every effort will be made to ensure at least one board 
member is from the designator for which the applicant is applying. 
Interview appraisals should be conducted in person if possible, but 
other methods can be utilized, including but not limited to 
Microsoft Teams or teleconference. 
     b.  Minimum grade requirements for board members are lieutenant or 
CWO3.  CWO3 panel members must have at least two years time in grade.  The 
appraisal board should, whenever possible, be comprised of officers who are 
not in the applicant's command, or at minimum, not directly in the chain of 
command. 
     c.  If it is not possible to assemble a panel of three officers, 
the interviews may be conducted separately.  Only three interview 
appraisals are required for each applicant. 
     d.  All sub-blocks contained within the "potential" section of the 
appraisal sheet (Technical Knowledge, Potential as a Career Naval Officer, 
and Comments) must be completed for all LDO and CWO candidates. 
     e.  Each appraisal shall contain the names of all three members who 
conducted the appraisal board.  Only the current version of the interviewer 
appraisal sheet will be accepted.  Follow the instructions in paragraph 8 to 
download the most current interviewer appraisal sheet. 
     f.  The CO of either SEAL Team 17 or 18 is a required interview 
appraisal board member for both the 715X and 717X designators. 
     g.  All applicants applying to the 715X designator must hold NEC 
O26A or O23A.  All applicants applying to the 717X designator must 
hold NEC O52A. 
 
5.  Applicants currently serving on mobilization may have their application 
endorsed by their field commander.  All applications endorsed by field 
commanders must have concurrence of their parent command.  Follow the 
instructions in paragraph 8 to download a sample addendum letter. 
 
6.  Applicants must maintain eligibility throughout the selection and 
commissioning process.  Applicants that are deemed ineligible after the 
submission of applications must be declared ineligible by their current CO, 
field commander (if on a mobilization) or parent command CO.  Follow the 
instructions in paragraph 8 to download a sample letter of abeyance or 
removal of recommendation memo. 
 
7.  The FY-25 Navy Selected Reserve LDO and CWO ISPB will convene at a date 
to be determined in calendar year 2024.  For the most current board dates, 
visit the MyNavy HR Reserve Officer Promotion Selection Boards 
webpage https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Boards/Reserve-
Officer/.  Select the FY-25 Board Schedule link under "Helpful Information" 
on the bottom-right hand side of the page.  E-mailed applications must be 
received by the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) not later than 1 October 
2023.  Submit applications via e-mail to cscselboard@navy.mil.  E-mails must 
be encrypted using a military e-mail account to protect personally 
identifiable information. 
     a.  For a tutorial on loading certificates required for encrypting 
emails, go to https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Community-
Management/Officer/Active-OCM/LDO-CWO/Applicant-Information/. 
     b.  Applicants who are unable to submit applications as outlined 
above due to current operational locations may mail their 
application via USPS to the address listed below.  When mailing PII, 
individuals must use Privacy Act Data Cover Sheet DD Form 2923 and 
double wrap the package.  DD Form 2923 may be accessed by using the 
following Web address:   
https://www.disa.mil/-/media/Files/DISA/About/Privacy-Office/dd2923.pdf 
The inner package must be labeled with the privacy warning *CUI - PRIVACY 
SENSITIVE - Any misuse or unauthorized disclosure may result in both 
civil and criminal penalties* and use a tracking feature. 
Correspondence mailed via USPS must use the following address: 
 
Navy Personnel Command Customer Service Center (BUPERS-074) 
President, FY-25 Reserve LDO/CWO In-service Procurement Board 25315 
5720 Integrity Drive 
Millington TN 38055 
 
     c.  All addendums to packages, including any routine addendums, 
evaluations, and awards, must be received no later than 15 December 2023.   
Applications must be signed by the applicant's current CO or acting CO (wet-
signatures are preferred, however, digital signatures are acceptable).   
Addendums can be signed by another officer with *By direction* authority if 
the CO or OIC is unavailable. 
     d.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
Service Member.  Information received that is not under the applicant's cover 
letter (e.g., third party correspondence) and endorsed by the command or not 
received by MNCC by the established deadline(s) will not be presented to the 
board.  The time and date (central standard time) received in the MNCC inbox 
via e-mail is the time and date used for deadline verification.  Although a 
late submission may be accepted by MNCC, it will not be presented to the 
board.  All applications or addendums must have the full social security 
number of the Service Member on each page.  Electronic and hard copy 
addendums must include a command endorsement.  The FY-25 Navy Selected 
Reserve LDO and CWO ISPB number is 25315.  Applicants who are unable to  
e-mail their applications despite following the guidance above may contact 
PERS-92 listed in paragraph 9.a. for further direction. 
 
8.  For the most current information concerning open designator codes and 
application process, visit the Reserve Limited Duty Officer and Chief Warrant 
Officer MyNavy HR webpage at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Community-Management/Officer/Reserve-OCM/Selected-Reservists/RC-
LDO-CWO/.   
This link contains pertinent OPNAVINSTs, interview appraisal sheet, sample 
addendum letter, sample letter of abeyance or removal of recommendation memo, 
application template and current/past board results. 
 
9.  Points of contact. 
     a.  For application and eligibility questions, contact PSC Lindsey 
Salazar, Affiliation and Redesignation Branch (PERS 92) at (901) 874-4456/ 
DSN 882 or via e-mail at lindsey.m.salazar.mil@us.navy.mil. 
     b.  General LDO/CWO career path and policy, contact LCDR Dustin Hoskins, 
Reserve LDO/CWO OCM (BUPERS 351), at (901) 874-3291/DSN 882, or via e-mail at 
dustin.a.hoskins.mil@us.navy.mil. 
 
10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or 30 September 
2024, whichever comes first. 
 
11.  Released by Rear Admiral James P. Waters, N13.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
