CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 141624Z JAN 25 MID180001538468U
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 002/25

SUBJ/2025 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/1OCT2024/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/8OCT24//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//
REF/D/NAVADMIN/28SEP23//

NARR/ REF (A) IS ATSD MEMO ISSUING DOD 2025 PUBLIC AFFAIRS COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT PLAN.
REF (B) IS OPNAVINST 5726.8D, NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH:  AMERICA'S WARFIGHTING 
NAVY, AND ESTABLISHES NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH REQUIREMENTS.
REF (C) IS NAVADMIN 148/16 ANNOUNCING THE AMERICAN CONNECTIONS PROGRAM.//  
REF (D) IS NAVADMIN 219/23 OUTLINING THE NAVY'S PLAN TO CELEBRATE THE 250TH 
BIRTHDAY OF THE NAVY IN 2025 AND THE 250TH BIRTHDAY OF THE UNITED STATES IN 
2026.
 
POC/ROB NEWELL/CIV/CHINFO/LOC:  WASHINGTON, DC/TEL:  (703) 614-1879
/EMAIL:  ROBERT.D.NEWELL1.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

1.  In 2024, Navy Community Outreach reached more than 190 million Americans 
through programs such as Fleet Weeks, Navy Weeks, Executive Engagements and 
the Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO)'s American Connections Program.
Our goal is 200 million in 2025, while continuing to intentionally link 
Community Outreach efforts to recruiting outcomes. Over the course of 2024, 
Navy Community Outreach executed more than 2,600 events across the country, 
expanding the Navy's outreach and impact. Our most recent Gallup quarterly 
survey showed upticks in key metrics, including knowledge, favorability and 
likelihood to recommend, highlighting the success of last year's community 
outreach efforts.  In 2025, we will commemorate the Navy's 250th birthday, a 
once-in-a-generation milestone that will further amplify our community 
engagement. All 2025 Community Outreach events will center around Navy and 
Nation 250, showcasing the Navy's legacy, its ongoing contributions to 
national security, and its role in strengthening maritime partnerships and 
global peace. These events will serve as a powerful reminder of the Navy's 
enduring strength and inspire a new generation of Americans to serve, in 
uniform and beyond, while deepening connections with both domestic and 
international audiences.

2.  In support of references (a) thru (c), this NAVADMIN issues 
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community Outreach 
Program for Calendar Year (CY) 2025.

3.  As outlined in reference (d), in 2025, the Navy will celebrate its 
marquee 250th Birthday in Philadelphia. Additionally Fleet concentration 
areas and individual commands will celebrate the Navy's 250th birthday at the 
local level.  The community outreach engagements and events celebration in 
this message connect Americans to their Navy in advance of this historic 
anniversary.

4.  Reference (a) has authorized the following community outreach programs 
for CY 2025:
    a.  Fleet Weeks.  Tasking and responsibilities for these events will be 
provided SEPCOR by cognizant operational and regional commanders. As always, 
Fleet Week support is subject to operational availability.
        (1) (East Coast) Fort Lauderdale, FL; New York City, NY; 
Philadelphia, PA; Houston, TX.
        (2) (West Coast) Los Angeles, CA; San Diego, CA; San Francisco, CA; 
Seattle, WA; Portland, OR.
    b.  15 Navy Weeks.  Per reference (b), The Navy Week program is a 
community outreach requirement, led by NAVCO, and is specifically designed to 
provide Americans around the country with the opportunity to personally 
connect with their Navy.  As such, principal stakeholders identified in 
reference (b), as well as subordinate commands specified in subsequent 
tasking, will support the 2025 Navy Week campaign to the maximum extent 
operational schedules allow. 

        (1) Tucson, AZ, 17-23 FEB
        (2) Sacramento, CA, 17-23 MAR
        (3) American Samoa, 14-20 APR
        (4) Huntsville, AL, 21-27 APR
        (5) Richmond, VA, 12-18 MAY
        (6) Anchorage, AK, 16-22 JUN
        (7) Duluth, MN, 30 JUN-6 JUL
        (8) Milwaukee, WI, 14-20 JUL
        (9) Sioux Falls, SD, 4-10 AUG
        (10) Columbus, OH, 18-24 AUG
        (11) Springfield/Branson, MO, 25-31 AUG
        (12) Wichita Falls, TX, 15-21 SEP
        (13) Hartford, CT/Springfield, MA, 22-28 SEP
        (14) Eugene, OR, 25 OCT-1 NOV
        (15) Santa Fe, NM, 10-16 NOV 

    c.  American Connections. The American Connections program, announced in 
reference (c), will continue to be a prominent component of the Navy 2025 
Community Outreach strategy.  Managed by NAVCO, it was established to share 
the Navy story with media across the country serving markets that generally 
do not receive Navy news and information.  In 2025, the program will include 
the following elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys production teams to 
commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos of assigned 
Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those Sailors have local 
connections.  NAVCO is planning 15 Media Production Visits in 2025 in support 
of key Navy communication priorities and programs, such as Ohio-class 
submarine replacement, surface shipbuilding and allies and partners.  In 
accordance with reference (b), commands are required to support media 
production visits from NAVCO.  Expected areas to be visited include: 

            (a) Boston, MA
            (b) Fort Meade, MD
            (c) Groton, CT
            (d) Guam
            (e) Hampton Roads, VA
            (f) Japan
            (g) Kings Bay, GA
            (h) Jacksonville, FL
            (i) Mayport, FL
            (j) Oklahoma City, OK
            (k) Pearl Harbor, HI
            (l) Pensacola, FL
            (m) Port Hueneme, CA
            (n) Rota, Spain
            (o) San Diego, CA 

        (2) Sailor recognition.  Commands are encouraged to continue 
highlighting their Sailors' awards, promotions, retirements, changes of 
command and other recognition by emailing content to 
navyoutreach(at)navy.mil.  NAVCO shares with media where Sailors have local 
connections and provides links to commands so Sailors can share with family 
and friends.
        (3) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day, commands 
throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos featuring the 
professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments of Navy commands.  
NAVCO provides these stories and photos to media where Sailors have local 
connections and to media with ties to namesake units.  In accordance with 
reference (b), commanding officers are encouraged to, "ensure all internally 
produced media products for public release include local connections for any 
Sailors identified in stories and photos."
        (4) Shoutout service.  A toll-free telephone service (1-855-OUR-NAVY 
or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to record a short greeting, which 
is shared with media where Sailors have local connections.  Greetings can be 
submitted in conjunction with a holiday or observance, such as Mother's Day, 
Veterans Day, etc.  Greetings can also be sent from Sailors, or namesake 
units, to offer support to their home teams participating in major sporting 
events.  Throughout the year, Sailors can share shoutouts to commemorate 
milestones such as birthdays, anniversaries, graduations, etc.  Those wishing 
to be notified of shoutout opportunities can e-mail navyoutreach(at)navy.mil.
    d.  Naval Aviation and Parachute Team Community Outreach.  Naval Aviation 
outreach is particularly effective, in that it has the unique ability to 
bring a primary warfighting platform to inland markets.  The following Naval 
Aviation outreach activities are authorized in 2025:
        (1) 32 full Blue Angels performances.
        (2) 70 Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) performances.
        (3) Nine Navy-Hosted Air Shows/Open Houses:   NAF El Centro, CA; NAS
Key West, FL; NAS Oceana, VA; NAS Jacksonville, FL; NAS Pensacola, FL, NAS 
Corpus Christi; NAS JRB New Orleans, LA; NAS JRB Fort Worth, TX;  USNA, 
Annapolis, MD. These events are authorized to have aerial demonstrations by 
aviation assets organic to the installation.
        (4) 44 TACAIRDEMO performances/Legacy Flights at Chief of Information 
(CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not performing.
The dispersion of assets prohibition does not apply to F-35 and other non-F-
18 aircraft.
        (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows and other 
events.
        (6) 50 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by CHINFO), 
equally divided between East and West Coast aviation assets, at CHINFO 
authorized events.  Sporting events are permitted one regular season and one 
post-season flyover at home games or matches, unless otherwise approved by 
CHINFO.
        (7) Flyovers, with local area aircraft, for community events that are 
vital to preserving good relations between the following Naval Aviation 
installations and host communities that support them:  NAS North Island, CA; 
NBVC Mugu, CA; NAS Lemoore, CA; NAS Fallon, NV; NAWS China Lake, CA; NAS 
Whidbey Island, WA; NAS Oceana, VA. NAS Kingsville, TX; NAS Corpus Christi, 
TX; NAS Key West, FL; NAS Jacksonville, FL; NAS Pensacola, FL. This includes 
flyovers at High School events that are approved by the Secretary of the Navy 
in accordance with the additional policy guidance and procedures outlined in 
the Policy section of this Plan. Units that provide flyovers in support of 
High School events shall partner with cognizant NTAGs to maximize recruiting 
efforts.  An NTAG or recruiting element Point of Contact shall be identified 
and submitted to NAVCO prior to executing the flyover.  An after-action 
report of leads generated and other pertinent data is due within 14 days of 
completion of the flyover to NAVCO by the NTAG or respective recruiting 
element.
        (8) Aviation outreach support that falls into the following 
categories is not subject to limits specified in reference (a):
            (a) Military services retain operational authority over support 
for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not considered community 
outreach events.
            (b) Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended primarily 
for an internal audience are not considered community outreach events and may 
be conducted with TYCOM approval.  This includes U.S. Naval Academy events.
            (c) Aviation outreach support, to include flyovers, at CHINFO- 
authorized events in the local area are permitted when it is deemed to be in 
the interest of maintaining good relations with key community partners and 
organizations. This is determined by NAVCO through coordination and 
communication with appropriate area military subject matter experts.
        (9) Inter-Service Military Service Academy Football Games.  Potential 
multi-service aerial review. Aircraft participation will be approved through 
operational channels in accordance with Military Service policies and will be 
no more than four aircraft (or the service demo team standard) per service.
Participating Department of Navy aircraft may be sourced from U.S. Navy or 
U.S. Marine Corps aircraft.
            (a) A practice event, featuring aircraft and jump teams, may be 
conducted the day before the Army-Navy Game flyover to ensure precision and 
readiness for the main event.  Although this practice event may be viewable 
by members of the public, including television broadcasters covering the 
Army-Navy Game, this practice event will not be provided, advertised, 
promoted, or leveraged as a secondary community engagement.  Furthermore, the 
practice event will be scheduled entirely according to the logistical needs 
of the Army-Navy Game planners and as needed to maximize the safety and 
precision of the aerial demonstration during the Army-Navy Game.
    e.  14 CONUS Port Visits.  From a community outreach perspective, there 
is no more effective means to showcase the Navy's capabilities and its 
talented Sailors than allowing Americans to visit a ship or submarine:
        (1) (East Coast) Boston, MA; Bristol, RI; Eastport, ME; Rockland, ME; 
Mobile, AL
        (2) (West Coast)  Astoria, OR; Port Angeles, WA; Anchorage, AK; 
Seward, AK; Kodiak, AK; Homer, AK; Kauai, HI; Hawaii Island, HI, Seal Beach, 
CA
        (3) Other port visits conducted primarily for training or operational 
purposes are not subject to limits specified in reference (a).  Per reference 
(b), the following elements should be incorporated into every outreach port 
visit SOE:
            (a) Media day (pierside press availability and a shipboard tour).
            (b) Very important person (VIP) reception.
            (c) VIP tours for local civic and community leaders and 
educators.
            (d) The maximum amount of public visitation possible to the 
extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
            (e) Two or more community relations projects, such as beach clean 
-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with appropriate media 
coverage.
    f.  Civic and Executive Outreach.  Reference (b) approves dedicated 
community outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic and 
executive outreach.
        (1) 40 Executive Engagement Visits (EEV).  Suggested cities for 2025 
include, but are not limited to:  Augusta, ME; Birmingham, AL; Boise, ID; 
Buffalo, NY; Cheyenne, WY; Cincinnati, OH; Colorado Springs, CO; Eastern, TN; 
El Paso, TX;  Green Bay, WI; Indianapolis, IN; Little Rock, AR; Long 
Island/Queens, NY; Manchester, NH; Pittsburgh, PA; Omaha, NE; Oklahoma City, 
OK; Pierre, SD; Salt Lake City, UT; San Antonio, TX; Tampa, FL; Trenton, NJ; 
Twin Falls, ID; Twin Cities, MN.
        (2) As an extension of the EEV program, NAVCO will also conduct 
community outreach engagement visits for post-deployment commanding officers.  
NAVCO welcomes Flag Officers, SES civilians and post-deployment commanding 
officers who are interested in conducting outreach to areas of the United 
States not mentioned above where they have close personal ties.
        (3) Per reference (b), travel by Flag Officers, SES civilians and 
members of the command triad outside the local area to participate in 
community outreach and other representational events that demonstrably help 
achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and will be considered essential 
official business in the government's interest.
    g.  Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most effective 
means to connect Americans with their Navy is through strong and enduring 
namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the requirements specified for 
the Navy Week program referenced above, reference (a) approves visits by 
crewmembers of ships and submarines with namesake ties to their namesake city 
or state.
    h.  Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  U.S. Navy Band and 
Fleet Band Activities will oversee and collect all new community outreach 
measurement guidelines as detailed in reference (a).  Reference (a) approves 
the following:
        (1) Fall/spring/summer tours
            (a) U.S. Navy Band Tour, March-April 2025
            (b) U.S. Navy Band Tour (Country Current), August-September 2025
        (2) Fleet Weeks & Navy Weeks
            (a) 10 Fleet Weeks supported by (6) individual CONUS Navy Bands
            (b) 15 Navy Weeks supported by (6) individual CONUS Navy Bands
        (3) U.S. Navy Band/Fleet/regional band performances
            (a) Rose Bowl Parade (USNB), January 2025
            (b) International Sax Symposium (USNB), January 2025
            (c) MegaCon (NBSE), February 2025
            (d) Gasparilla Music Festival (NBSE), February 2025
            (e) World of Nations Celebration (NBSE), February 2025
            (f) Daytona 500 (NBSE), February 2025
            (g) Boston St. Patrick's Day Parade (NBNE), March 2025
            (h) SXSW Music Festival (NBSE), March 2025
            (i) 12 Hours of Sebring (NBSE), March 2025
            (j) El Centro Festival of Light (NBSW), March 2025
            (k) Virginia International Tattoo (USFFB), April 2025
            (l) New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival (NBSE), April 2025
            (m) Inman Park Festival (NBSE), April 2025
            (n) Dogwood Festival NBSE), April 2025
            (o) 63rd Merrie Monarch Festival Parade, (PACFLT Band), April 
2025
            (p) Middleton Airshow, (NBNE), May 2025
            (q) Fleet Week New York (NBNE), May 2025
            (r) Welcome to Rockville Festival (NBSE), May 2025
            (s) Jacksonville Jazz Festival (NBSE), May 2025
            (t) Decatur Arts Festival (NBSE), May 2025
            (u) Hangout Music Festival (NBSE), May 2025
            (v) Vancouver International Military Band Concert (NBNW), May
2025
            (w) Navy Bridge Run (NBSW), May 2025
            (x) Armed Forces Day Concert (NBSW), May 2025
            (y) Belmont Stakes Race Opening (NBNE), June 2025
            (z) Mid-Atlantic Air Museum Concert (NBNE), June 2025
            (aa) Bonnaroo Music & Arts Festival NBSE), June 2025
            (ab) Virginia Highlands Summer Festival (NBSE), June 2025
            (ac) Tijuana Independence Day Celebration (NBSE), June 2025
            (ad) Annual Joint Armed Forces Concert (PACFLT Band), June 2025
            (ae) Underwater Music Festival (NBSE), July 2025
            (af) Independence Day Celebration (NBNW), July 2025
            (ag) Coronado 4th of July Parade (NBSW), July 2025
            (ah) Newport Jazz Festival (NBNE), August 2025
            (ai) State Fair Meadowlands (NBNE), September 2025
            (aj) Thunder Over NH Airshow (NBNE), September 2025
            (ak) Green Mountain Aviation Field Days (NBNE), September 2025
            (al) 27th Annual Battle of Plattsborough Ceremony (NBNE), 
September 2025
            (am) Dragon Con (NBSE), September 2025
            (an) Savannah Jazz Festival (NBSE), September 2025
            (ao) Estes Park International tattoo (NBSE), September 2025
       (4) U.S. Navy Band international performances
            (a) No international engagements scheduled this FY.
       (5) Navy Band public outreach concerts.
       (6) Large public concerts (DC Concerts on the Avenue)).
       (7) Ceremonial Guard:
            (a) Three parades outside the NCR.
            (b) Twelve Navy Weeks and three Fleet Weeks.
            (c) Three Media engagement events outside the NCR.
            (d) Major professional sporting events (NASCAR, Super Bowl, All 
Star Games).
            (e) Ship commissioning, christening and naming ceremonies.
            (f) Navy 250th Birthday events as directed.
    i. Virtual Outreach.  Social Media remains an important component of the 
Navy 2025 Community Outreach strategy.  NAVCO manages multiple social 
platforms to aid in connecting Americans to their Navy.  NAVCO uses social 
media to amplify fleet messaging, highlight Navy Weeks, namesake visits, 
executive engagements visits, and to release content that educates and 
informs Americans about their Navy.  Commands are encouraged to continue 
highlighting their Sailors, utilize platform collaboration features, tag 
NAVCO's social media and utilize the hashtags #navyweek, #navyoutreach, and 
#americasnavy250.  Additionally, commands can reach out to the NAVCO Virtual 
Outreach Team with content/influencer collaboration ideas and to align 
messaging during any/all national outreach events.
    j.  Navy Birthday Celebrations/Historical Commemorations/Ship Milestone 
Events.  Support is authorized for the following:
        (1) Battle of Midway 83nd Anniversary (June 4)
        (2) 250th Navy Birthday (October 13)
        (3) Ship Milestones (dates TBD):
            (a) USS Iowa (SSN 797) commissioning
            (b) USS Massachusetts (SSN 798) commissioning
            (c) USS Cleveland (LCS 31) commissioning commemoration
            (d) USS Harvey C Barnum Jr (DDG 124) commissioning
            (e) USS Pierre (LCS 38) commissioning
            (f) USS John F. Kennedy (CVN 79) commissioning
        (4) 83rd Anniversary National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day 
Commemoration, December 7, 2025
    k.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  For activities not included in 
reference (a), use of local resources to support community outreach 
activities in the local area is authorized and encouraged.  Local area is 
defined in Joint Travel Regulation, Chapter 2, Article 0206.
    l.  Entertainment Media.  Support is authorized for entertainment media 
engaged in:
        (1) Feature Films:  Mission Impossible 8 (Paramount/Skydance) and 
Hail Mary (MGM)
        (2) Television Series:  The Recruit Season 2, Final Episode 
(Netflix); NCIS (courtesy script review only)
        (3) Major Docu-Series:   Top Gun: The Next Generation (NatGeo); How
Do They Fix That (Smithsonian); Submerged (Paramount); On The Brink (Netflix)
- USMC project featuring USN;  Amphibious Forces, Aircraft Carrier Flight 
Deck Operations (Apple Vision Pro); The Watch (TBD)
    m.  Aircraft Carrier, ship and submarine underway embarks for 
distinguished visitors and media are authorized.  Request the Type Commands 
managing these programs provide embark opportunities to those who can best 
share their experience with young and diverse audiences.  To help achieve 
that desired effect, CNAF now uses this nomination form:
https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=DQSIkWdsW0yxEjajBLZtrQAAA
AAAAAAAAAO__TM7YVNUMFVERFdZUVlWOUpQQ1A5TlIzNVFXODNNQS4u.  Nominations 
populate into a database and are reviewed weekly for consideration for 
upcoming embark opportunities.

5.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require approval by 
the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.  
Requests for an exception to policy must be forwarded through CHINFO.  For 
additional questions pertaining to this NAVADMIN and the execution of the 
Navy's 2025 Community Outreach Plan, please contact Mr. Rob Newell at  
(703) 614-1879.

6.  Released by RDML R. M. Perry, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

