CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 281414Z NOV 23 MID120000660384U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 286/23 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/NOV// 
 
SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2024-2025 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER SCHOLARSHIP RETENTION 
PROGRAM SOLICITATION// 
 
REF/A/INST/OPNAV/17 JAN 20// 
AMPN/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1520.23C CH-3, GRADUATE EDUCATION// 
 
POC/DAWN COTTERELL/CIV/OPNAV N2N6D/EMAIL: 
DAWN.D.COTTERELL.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL/TEL:  703-695-1858// 
POC/MICHAEL SAUNDERS/CIV/OPNAV N2N6D/ EMAIL: 
MICHAEL.J.SAUNDERS1.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL/TEL:  703-693-4160// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Department of Defense (DoD) Cyber 
Scholarship Retention Program (CySP) for Academic Year 2024-2025 
nomination requirements and provides details for the Navy application 
process.  The DoD CySP provides professional development opportunities to 
current employees who support DoD critical cyber functions in exchange for 
continued service within the Department. 
 
2.  The Navy encourages personnel to take advantage of the degree completion 
opportunities provided through the DoD CySP.  During a time of limited 
training resources, this program provides a viable means to fund advanced 
education for personnel who are either in a cybersecurity related position or 
are preparing for an assignment requiring advanced knowledge in the broad 
disciplines defined in paragraph 4. 
 
3.  Navy Eligibility Requirements.  Permanent DoD civilian employees may 
apply for the masters program, doctoral degree program, or associates degree 
program (nonresident, part-time, or Distance Learning (DL) programs 
available) (see limitations paragraph 4). Active Duty and Full Time Support 
(FTS) military officers are eligible for either the bachelors, masters or 
doctoral programs (nonresident, part-time, or DL programs only). Nominated 
personnel should be high performing employees who have demonstrated the 
potential for increased responsibilities.  Nominations should fulfill 
specific personnel development requirements for both the individual nominee 
and the nominating organization. 
 
4.  Academic Disciplines.  For participation in the CySP, qualified employees 
must pursue degrees in academic disciplines that have a concentration in 
cybersecurity.  Such disciplines include, but are not limited to:   
biometrics, computer crime investigations, computer engineering, computer 
programming, computer science, computer systems analysis, cyber operations, 
cybersecurity, cybersecurity policy, database administration, data 
management, data science, digital and multimedia forensics, electrical 
engineering, electronics engineering, information security (assurance), 
information systems, information technology (IT) acquisition, IT program and 
project management, network management and operations, software engineering, 
systems engineering, and other similar disciplines as approved by the DoD 
Chief Information Officer (CIO). 
 
5.  Participating Institutions.  The below is a brief description of 
the available programs but more information can be accessed via the 
Navy Cyberspace Workforce at  
https://flankspeed.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/USFF-NAVIFOR/N6/N61/CSWF 
and DoD CySP Application Tool 
https://www.dodemergingtech.com/cyber-scholarship-program-cysp/ 
(Common Access Card e-mail certificate login required). 
    a.  Graduate and Bachelor Programs: 
        (1) DoD institutions offering full-time academic programs leading to 
a masters or doctoral degree are the Air Force Institute of Technology Open 
to DoD civilians and military only. 
        (2) Joint Cyber Analysis Course (JCAC) Partner Program: 
Utilizing pre-established National Security Agency agreements, graduates of 
the JCAC program may transfer credits into an approved undergraduate or 
graduate programs.  Open to Active-Duty officers and enlisted only. 
        (3) Other Programs offering Cyber Leadership Development Programs and 
Chief Information Officer Leadership Development Program from National 
Defense University and Partner University Programs Leadership Development 
Programs (Partner Programs) (Full-time/in-residence) 
    b.  Community College Program:  Community colleges designated as Centers 
of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education have been invited to 
participate in an associate degree program which offers full or part-time 
attendance options.  Individuals wishing to participate in the CySP Community 
College Program should review the potential list of institutions, which can 
be found at https://www.dodemergingtech.com/cyber-scholarship-program-cysp/. 
Not all schools listed will ultimately elect to participate in this 
program.  Therefore, it is important that each applicant lists up to three 
schools.  Open to DoD civilians (full-time, part-time, and DL options 
available) and military (full-time, part-time, in-residence and DL only). 
 
6.  Program Costs.  The cost of tuition, required fees, and required books 
(any recommended books or materials are not covered) will be covered by the 
program.  Civilian and military students will continue to receive their 
salaries from their parent commands throughout their course of study.  Parent 
commands of civilian and military students are also responsible for all 
travel costs, Permanent Change of Station any Temporary Additional Duty 
costs, and any necessary position back-fill for individuals selected for the 
program.  Prospective applicants should meet with their parent commands to 
discuss all potential program costs.  This meeting should provide a full 
understanding of what is expected during their education experience and upon 
completion of their academic degree. 
 
7.  Obligations.  Participants must maintain good standing in their degree 
programs and upon completion, continue in service as civilian employees or 
military members or repay the costs of the program.  Pursuant to reference 
(a), military members shall serve on Active Duty in accordance with 
fulfilling designated service obligations of the Navy.  DoD civilian 
employees shall sign a continued service agreement with their parent 
organization or component that complies with 10 U.S.C. 2200, prior to 
commencement of their education, to continue service within the DoD upon 
conclusion of their education, for a period equal to three times the length 
of the education period.  If selected, students must sign a Student Code of 
Conduct Agreement, a Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act waiver 
required for release of transcripts, and other additional agreement forms as 
required.  Employees currently performing a period of obligated service will 
not be considered for the DoD CySP as the program does not allow for 
concurrent service obligations. 
 
8.  Nomination Package Requirements. The candidate nomination information is 
available at https://www.dodemergingtech.com/cyber-scholarship-program-
cysp/.  Applicants can apply using the DoD CySP Retention Application from 
October 16, 2023, to February 1, 2024, at:  
https://www.dodemergingtech.com/cyber-scholarship-program-cysp/. 
Application procedure timeline: 
    a.  Component Nomination Review:  March 2024. 
    b.  Review by the DOD CySP Program Office:  April 2024. 
    c.  Notification of Status: May 1, 2024. 
    d.  Program Commencement:  Academic Year 2024-2025. 
 
9.  Released by Ms. Jennifer Edgin, Assistant Deputy Chief of Naval 
Operations for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
