CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 181702Z SEP 24 MID120001396513U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 194/24 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/SEP// 
 
SUBJ/NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE UPDATE AUGUST 2024// 
 
REF/A/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/23AUG21// 
REF/B/CNO WASHINGTON DC/141633ZFEB24// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVPERS 15665J, U.S. NAVY UNIFORM REGULATIONS.   
REF B IS NAVY UNIFORM POLICY AND UNIFORM INITIATIVE UPDATE FEBRUARY 2024.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces updates to Navy uniform policy and female 
uniform initiatives.  Uniform policy updates are the result of received 
Sailor feedback, command sponsored requests, and direction from Navy 
leadership. 
 
2.  The manner and occasion for wear of the Recruiting Command, Recruit 
Division Commander, and Career Counselor identification badges (ID badges) 
have been expanded as follows and is effective immediately for incumbent and 
post tour eligible personnel: 
    a.  Metal ID Badges.  Metal identification badges (ID badges) without 
wreaths and stars may be worn optionally on the Navy Working Uniform (NWU) 
for personnel assigned ashore until cloth badges are made available.   
Placement of metal ID badges on the NWU will be in line with reference (a). 
    b.  Embroidered ID Badges.  Embroidered ID badges may also be worn on the 
NWU Type 3 for afloat and ashore assigned eligible personnel.  Placement of 
embroidered ID badges on the NWU Type III will be in line with reference (a). 
    c.  Post Tour ID Badge Wear.  Post tour wear of ID badges without wreaths 
and stars is authorized for Sailors who have successfully completed a 
recruiting, recruit division commander, or career counselor assignment. 
    d.  Post Tour ID Badge Manner of Wear: 
        (1)  Placement of metal ID badges to denote post tour wear on Service 
and Service Dress uniforms will align with the placement of incumbent ID 
badge wear in line with reference (a).  Placement of embroidered ID badges on 
the NWU Type III to denote post tour status will be centered on the right 
pocket flap. 
        (2)  Beginning 1 January 2025, a miniature size recruiting, recruit 
division commander, and career counselor ID badge will be worn to denote post 
tour assignment status.  Commencing this date, regular size ID badges will be 
worn only by Sailors fulfilling an incumbent assignment. 
    e.  Availability.  Regular size recruiting and recruit division commander 
ID badges will be issued through cognizant organizations to eligible 
Sailors.  Regular size Career Counselor ID badges will continue to be sold at 
the Navy Exchange Uniform and Customer Support Centers.  Notification of the 
availability of miniature size recruiting, recruit division commander and 
career counselor ID badges will be via separate announcements. 
 
3.  Navy War College (NWC) Alumni badge may now be worn as an optional 
uniform identification badge on service and full dress uniforms in accordance 
with Section 1, Chapter 5 of reference (a) with the following provisions: 
    a.  Eligibility.  Any NWC graduate of an in-residence or distance 
educations JPME-granting course. 
    b.  Badge Description.  Metal, circular, 1.5 inch by 1.5 inch badge 
presenting the NWC trident and shield, colored in blue, white, and gold. 
    c.  Occasion of wear.  Formal and informal NWC alumni events and 
partnership engagements where attendees include U.S. and international 
graduates from NWC.  Due to the size of the badge, it is not authorized for 
wear in dinner dress uniforms. 
    d.  Manner of wear.  For individual badge wear, the NWC will be worn on 
Service Dress and Full Dress Uniforms in the same manner prescribed for the 
wear of the Office of the Secretary of Defense or Joint Chiefs of Staff ID 
badges.  For dual ID badge wear, refer to chapter 5, section 1, article 
5101.4 of reference (a).  Wearing of NWC ID badges does not take precedence 
over incumbent assignment ID badge wear requirements.  Individuals are not 
authorized to wear more than two ID badges. 
    e.  Availability.  NWC badges are awarded to international and only U.S. 
students embedded in the international programs within Naval Command Course 
and National Security Courses.  NWC will make the alumni badges available for 
purchase by any eligible U.S. NWC graduate.  This badge will not be available 
for NEXCOM online or in-store purchase. 
 
4.  Female Uniform Initiative, Size Modernization Program (SMP).  As 
announced in reference (b), the SMP is a multiphase five-year uniform 
improvement program focused on improving the design, form, fit, and function 
of female uniforms.  The objective of the SMP is to deliver modernized 
uniforms that are of consistent fit and sizing across all Service and Dress 
uniform types.  Phase One efforts of the SMP are concentrated on officer and 
Chief Petty officer (CPO) Service and Dress slacks, skirts, and 
shirts/blouses.  Phase TWO SMP efforts will focus on modernization of 
enlisted E1 to E6 uniform components.  Phase One fleet introduction events 
will occur during calendar years 2024 and 2025 consisting of the following 
initiatives: 
    a.  Summer White Overblouse:  Short sleeved optional component worn by 
officers and CPOs with the Summer White Service Uniform. 
        (1)  Fit Clinics:  Pensacola, FL 9-13 September 2024.  
Jacksonville, FL 9-13 September 2024.  Bangor, WA 16-20 September 2024.  
San Diego, CA 23-27 September 2024. 
        (2)  Component Availability:  Introduction will commence in at select 
locations (Norfolk VA, Jacksonville FL, Pensacola FL, San Diego CA,  
Bangor WA, Pearl Harbor HI, Arlington VA) no later than September 2024.   
Follow-on availability for the rest of the fleet will commence October 2024. 
        (3)  Manner and occasion for wear will be promulgated via 
reference (a) upon completion of the September 2024 fit clinics and the 
establishment of proper fit and sizing criteria. 
    b.  Dress Overblouse:  Long sleeved optional overblouse worn with Service 
Dress Blue Uniform. 
        (1)  Component production will commence December 2024. 
        (2)  Component Availability:  At select uniform centers, commencing 
April 2025. 
    c.  Service Slacks with Back Pockets.  White, Khaki, and Blue slacks will 
have center front zipper fastener, side pockets.  Blue slacks will remain 
beltless. 
        (1)  Component production will commence May 2025. 
        (2)  Component Availability: At select uniform centers, commencing 
September 2025. 
    d.  Service Skirts.  White, Khaki and Blue service skirts will be 
redesigned to encompass straight vice A frame design, back center zipper 
fastener and kick pleat.  Side pockets are being reviewed to determine 
compatibility with new design pattern, appearance, and functionality. 
        (1)  Component production will commence September 2025. 
        (2)  Component Availability:  At select uniform centers, commencing 
December 2025. 
Note* All availability dates are based on manufacturer's supply chain and 
production delivery. 
 
5.  Questions regarding this NAVADMIN should be addressed via e-mail to  
Mr. Robert B. Carroll, Navy Uniform Matters and Emerging Issues 
Branch (OPNAV N13X), at robert.b.carroll3.civ@us.navy.mil, or YNCS 
Marishia Robinson (OPNAV N13X), at Marishia.r.robinson.mil@us.navy.mil. 
 
6.  Questions regarding SMP initiatives and introduction should be addressed 
to CDR Terri Gabriel, Deputy Commander Navy Uniforms, Navy Exchange Service 
Command at terri.gabriel@nexweb.org. 
 
7.  Feedback and recommendations regarding uniform policy, uniform components 
and uniform availability are welcomed and can be provided via e-mail at 
UMO_CMC@navy.mil, via the MyNavy UNIFORMS App, or via MyNavy HR 
at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/ select references, U.S. Navy Uniforms and 
*Ask The Chiefs*. 
 
8.  Retain this NAVADMIN until policy changes are incorporated in reference 
(a), superseded or cancelled, whichever occurs first. 
 
9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
