ROUTINE
R 061951Z APR 21 MID600050429470U
FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 076/21

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAR//

SUBJ/2021 AMERICAN LEGION SPIRIT OF SERVICE AWARD// 

POC/Kristine Garland/NAVCO/LOC: MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:(901) 874-5882/ 
EMAIL:  kristine.garland@navy.mil

RMKS/1.  The American Legion will present its Spirit of Service Award to an
enlisted member (E-5 and below) from each branch of the Armed Forces.
Because of the pandemic, it is still unknown if the award will be virtual or
in person.
If in person, it will be presented by the National Commander, James W. 
Oxford, on stage at the Legion's national convention in Phoenix, Arizona,
27-02 September 2021.

2.  Eligibility.  The main criterion of the award is the level of volunteer
community service that a Sailor performs off-duty in the local community.
Command-sponsored volunteer activities, either on duty or off, will not be
counted. The period of service is 1 January 2020 - 31 December 2020, and
nominees must be E-5 or below during the period of service.  Nominees may be
active or reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals.  Previous
winners of this award are not eligible.  If chosen as the recipient, the
awardee must attend the American Legion national convention.

3.  Travel and lodging.  Within CONUS, the American Legion will provide
travel and lodging expenses for the individual winner only.  The winner is
responsible for travel expenses for family members or guests.  The winner
will arrive at the convention hotel on Friday, 27 August, and depart
Thursday, 02 September.

4.  Nominations.  Nomination packages must contain the Commanding Officer's
(CO) nomination, a description of the volunteer service performed, a
biography of the Sailor, a high-resolution JPEG head AND full body
photograph of the Sailor and a signed consent for release of information.
    a.  Commanding Officer nomination.  COs may nominate one Sailor from
their command. Nominations must be on command letterhead and indicate the 
CO's confidence in the Sailor's professionalism and as a representative of
the Navy, the validity of the volunteer efforts and a commitment to 
facilitate their nominee's attendance at the national convention, if 
selected. Endorsements are not required.
    b.  Volunteer efforts.  Description of volunteer efforts must include
quantitative data such as hours, days, or months spent on off-duty volunteer 
community service.  Command sponsored volunteer activities, either on duty or 
off, will not be counted. This description should be provided in a bullet 
format.
    c.  Nominee photo.  A high-resolution JPEG head AND full body photograph
of the Sailor is required. If chosen as the award recipient, the nominee's
photo will be used in printed and online material used to publicize and
document the award ceremony.  The photo should be similar to those commonly
associated with Navy leader biographies and official portrait photos.
    d.  Nominee biography.  If chosen as the award recipient, the biography
will be used in the Legion's magazine and convention program. The biography
should include hometown information as well as professional highlights and
qualifications.
    e.  Signed consent for release of information.  A written and signed
statement of consent by the Sailor, authorizing release of information
contained in the nomination, is required per the Privacy Act of 1974.  The
following statement is a sample of written consent:
"I, (rate/rank/full name), do hereby authorize the release of all
information enclosed in this nomination package to those persons involved in
the selection process."
    f.  All parts of the package should be contained in one PDF.
    g.  For a sample package of a previous winner, go to
https://www.outreach.navy.mil/Outreach/ExecutiveOutreach/

5.  Nomination submission.  Nominations must be received by 19 May 2021.
Nominations must be submitted electronically to kristine.garland@navy.mil.

6.  Selection process.  The Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO) will
consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board, and recommend the top
candidates to the American Legion, which will make the selection.  NAVCO will 
inform the winner and also notify those not selected.

7.  Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
