CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 012115Z AUG 24 MID120001315106U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 152/24 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
 
SUBJ/CY24 COMMAND CLIMATE ASSESSMENTS// 
 
REF/A/MSG/11MAR24// 
REF/B/DOC/DOD/20DEC22// 
REF/C/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/26JUN18// 
REF/D/SECNAV/16SEP90// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 051/24, CULTURE OF EXCELLENCE 2.0. 
REF B IS DODI 6400.11, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTEGRATED PRIMARY PREVENTION 
POLICY FOR PREVENTION WORKFORCE AND LEADERS. 
REF C IS THE COMMAND RESILIENCE TEAM GUIDE. 
REF D IS U.S. NAVY REGULATIONS, 1990.// 
 
RMKS/1.  To best implement Culture of Excellence (COE) 2.0, in line 
with reference (a), and build Great People, Leaders, and Teams 
across our Navy, this NAVADMIN provides revisions to the Command 
Climate Assessment (CCA) process outlined in references (b) and (c) 
to include responsibilities for Commanders, Commanding Officers 
(CO), Officers-in-Charge, civilian equivalents (collectively 
referred to as Commanders in this NAVADMIN) and Immediate Superiors 
in Command (ISIC). 
 
2.  COE 2.0 is dependent on high-quality CCAs that are thoroughly 
debriefed to their command and ISIC.  The back of the COE 2.0 
placemat includes the CCA as part of "Listening and Acting" and is 
now part of the CCA Executive Summary.  The COE 2.0 Playbook, page 
24, includes key actions for high performing commands.  For Calendar 
Year 24, in addition to the virtual CO's suggestion box provided 
with the COE 2.0 rollout, commands have additional survey capability 
as contained in paragraph eleven of this NAVADMIN. 
 
3.  Per reference (d), section 0820, COs must "use all proper means 
to foster high morale, and to develop and strengthen the morale and 
spiritual well-being of the personnel under his or her command." 
The CCA gives leaders data-driven feedback about the climate and 
culture at their command.  Leveraging the Defense Organizational 
Climate Survey (DEOCS) and other sources of information, the CCA 
process provides Commanders with actionable insight about protective 
factors like connectedness and inclusion, and risk factors common to 
many Navy commands, such as moderate/high stress, hostile work 
environments, racial and sexual harassment. 
 
4.  CCA (roles, responsibilities). 
    a.  Commanders.  Commanders are responsible for executing in 
accordance with this NAVADMIN, to include consideration of the best 
practices contained in paragraph nine. 
    b.  ISIC (Echelon 4 or higher).  In addition to executing their 
own CCA, ISICs are responsible for ensuring subordinate Commanders 
conduct a debrief of their CCA.  Doing so enables ISICs to assess, 
document, and mentor the performance of Commanders based on their 
ability to build great culture.  ISICs may adjust the timing of 
subordinate CCAs based on operational requirements, with any waivers 
documented in writing and provided to their Echelon 3 Commander. 
    c.  Echelon 3.  Echelon 3 Commanders who execute a Health of 
Community brief to the Chief of Naval Operations will now include 
information about subordinate command CCAs in the Health of the 
Community briefing (trends and actionable items). 
    d.  Echelon 2.  Annually, by 31 March, each Echelon 2 must 
report annual CCA completion and ISIC debrief status to the Navy 
Culture and Force Resilience Office (OPNAV N17), to include commands 
that have requested a waiver or are incomplete. 
    e.  Integrated Primary Prevention Workforce (IPPW) Personnel. 
IPPW personnel consist of full-time, dedicated primary prevention 
professionals in the roles of deployable Embedded Integrated 
Prevention Coordinators (EIPCs) and shore-based Integrated 
Prevention Coordinators (IPCs).  In 2022, Navy began hiring EIPCs to 
assist with CCA execution onboard aircraft carriers and big-deck 
amphibious assault ships.  In 2023, Navy began hiring IPCs to serve 
at the Fleet, Type Commander, Region, and installation levels in 
support of tenant command CCA execution, and in 2024, to serve at 
and support Reserve commands.  IPPW personnel, if available, must be 
consulted and leveraged as part of the CCA process. 
    f.  Command Climate Specialists (CCS).  CCSs, located at select 
Echelon 2 and 3 staffs, and assigned to aircraft carriers and big- 
deck amphibious assault ships, will track and monitor the completion 
of the CCA and face-to-face debrief within their enterprise.  The 
CCS will collaborate and coordinate with the Command Resilience Team 
(CRT) and IPPW to provide advice and guidance to the Commander on 
all matters and issues that may affect the command's climate. 
    g.  CRTs.  The CRT is accountable to the CO for administering 
the CCA, leveraging reference (c). 
 
5.  CCA (information and requirements). 
    a.  DEOCS (confidentiality):  DEOCS comments are unable to be 
linked back to an individual and are therefore completely 
confidential. 
    b.  DEOCS (contact information):  Valid ISIC, IPPW personnel (if 
available), and next higher-level CCS contact information must be 
included in DEOCS request, which allows those individuals to 
directly access the DEOCS results. 
 
6.  Navy Comprehensive Integrated Primary Prevention (N-CIPP) plan. 
    a.  To implement guidance in reference (b), every command that completes 
a CCA is required to create an N-CIPP plan and upload it into the Defense 
Climate Portal. 
    b. The N-CIPP plan is the roadmap for units to describe their current 
climate and needs, most at-risk populations, planned research-based 
prevention activities, and evaluation plans. 
The N-CIPP plan is comprised of the Executive Summary and POA&M combined into 
a single, PDF document.  The approved N-CIPP plan template can be found on 
MyNavyHR under the Primary Prevention page at  
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Support-Services/Culture-Resilience/Primary-
Prevention/.  
    c.  Must be uploaded as a single PDF to the Defense Climate Portal 
at https://www.prevention.mil/Climate-Portal/ annually by January 31.  IPPW 
personnel are responsible for uploading N-CIPP plans to the Defense Climate 
Portal.  In the absence of assigned IPPW personnel, the Command Managed Equal 
Opportunity Manager will upload the N-CIPP plan. 
    d.  Must be updated annually by July 31 via the Defense Climate Portal, 
describing implementation progress and new information (e.g., findings from 
new change of command CCAs, new DOCP surveys, research, and evaluations). 
 
7.  CCA administrators, IPPW personnel, and any other personnel administering 
or consulting on CCAs are required to receive training on how to conduct a 
CCA and administer the DEOCS through the Joint Knowledge Online (JKO) course 
PREV-004 "How to Conduct a Command Climate Assessment and Administer the 
Defense Organizational Climate Survey."  IPPW personnel are required to 
receive training on CIPP plan development through JKO course PREV-005, 
"Development of a Comprehensive Integrated Primary Prevention Plan."  These 
courses are available on JKO at  
https://jkodirect.jten.mil/Atlas2/page/login/Login.jsf 
 
8.  Requisite DEOCS, DOCP surveys, and Navy CIPP plans are managed via the 
Defense Climate Portal (DCP).  Information on the DCP, including the 
registration form and login, is available at 
https://www.prevention.mil/Climate-Portal/.  Questions about the CCA process 
can be forwarded to the appropriate Echelon 2 CCS, the Integrated Primary 
Prevention Program mailbox, OPNAV_IPP.fct@navy.mil, or Navy Harassment and 
Military Equal Opportunity Advice Line, MILL_Navy_EO_Advice@navy.mil.   
Questions about IPPW assignments and availability to support units can be 
directed to the Regional Integrated Prevention Coordinators listed at the 
following link: 
https://ffr.cnic.navy.mil/Portals/76/Family_Readiness/Documents/RIPC%20Contac
t%20Info.pdf?ver=jzL3B9rtBjRleiuc78LT-w%3d%3d. 
 
9.  CCA (timeline and process). 
    a.  Annual CCA: 
        (1) Must start no earlier than 1 August and conclude by 30 November 
(the CCA fielding window). 
        (2) Must initiate the DEOCS no later than 31 October. 
        (3) Must include administration of a DEOCS and consideration of 
multiple sources of information gathered by the CRT such as administrative 
records review, reports, interview data, focus groups, or other existing 
data, the current and previous DEOCS and any Defense Organizational Climate 
Pulse (DOCP) Survey results. 
        (4) The CRT, or subgroup thereof, and IPPW personnel, if available, 
must have a CCA review session with the Commander within 60 calendar days (or 
by the next drill period) from close of the DEOCS.  The CCA review sessions 
must include a completed N-CIPP plan. 
        (5) Must be debriefed to the ISIC within 30 calendar days after the 
CCA review session was completed.  Email review and reply are not acceptable. 
        (6) Must be debriefed to the command by the Commander, to include key 
items from the N-CIPP plan within 30 calendar days of the CCA review session. 
    b.  Change of Command CCA: 
        (1) Must be completed within 90 days after assumption of command or 
office. 
        (2) If the change of command occurs outside of the CCA fielding 
window, the change of command CCA should not include a DEOCS if one has been 
conducted in the last calendar year. 
        (3) If a change of command occurs during the CCA fielding window, 
Commanders must conduct a single CCA that includes the administration of a 
DEOCS. 
        (4) Must include a review of the most recent annual CCA, assessment 
of the previous Commander's progress in implementing the relevant actions in 
the N-CIPP plan, and consideration of administrative records, reports, 
interview data, focus groups, and other data as available. 
        (5) The CRT, or subgroup thereof, and IPPW personnel, if available, 
must have a CCA review session with the Commander within 120 calendar days 
after assumption of command (or by the next drill period).  The CCA review 
sessions must include a completed N-CIPP plan. 
        (6) Must be debriefed to the ISIC within 30 calendar days after the 
CCA review session was completed.  Email review and reply are not acceptable. 
        (7) Must be debriefed to the command by the Commander, to include key 
items from the N-CIPP plan within 30 calendar days of the CCA review session. 
 
10.  CCA Best Practices. 
    a.  All Service Members and civilian employees in the command or 
organization must have the opportunity to participate in the CCA. Contractor 
personnel may not participate in the CCA, per reference (b). 
    b.  Triads and CRTs should seek to maximize participation during working 
hours through creative means, as part of morale-building events or all hands 
training.  The best way to encourage participation is yearly debriefs of CCA 
results, and periodic debriefs of ongoing POA&M actions.  Leadership should 
reinforce the confidentiality of DEOCS as part of command messaging. 
    c.  An active, sustained CRT remains a best-practice in high- performing 
commands, so that relationships are established, actions are taken, and 
trends can be assessed over the course of time. 
    d.  Commanders should emphasize the importance of DEOCS participation, 
but participation must remain voluntary in keeping with statute and 
regulation, and to ensure results are not skewed. 
Historically, the Navy has averaged about 40 percent DEOCS participation.   
The higher the voluntary survey participation, the more confidence Commanders 
can have that the results represent the views of their unit.  Refer to the 
CCA NAVADMIN Fact Sheet for information on survey participation levels and 
resultant survey confidence factors. 
 
11.  CCA (voluntary and optional resources). 
    a.  To assist commands in building Great People, Leaders, and Teams, 
three additional tools are new for 2024. 
        (1) DOCP Survey.  The Department of Defense now provides commands 
with a pulse survey capability to augment DEOCS.  The DOCP survey is a short, 
customizable survey on organizational climate, consisting of relevant, 
command-selected questions.  The DOCP survey question bank is designed to 
assess a wide variety of topics within a unit or organization and allow each 
command to tailor the survey for their unique needs.  The DOCP survey cannot 
be administered more than once a year or administered within the 90 days 
before or after a DEOCS.  The DOCP is the only DoD approved survey tool to 
measure command climate between CCAs.  To build and use a DOCP survey, 
commands should access through the Defense Climate Portal located at 
https://www.prevention.mil/Climate-Portal/. 
        (2) Virtual CO's Suggestion Box.  All commands have access to a 
Virtual CO Suggestion Box.  The suggestions are only viewable by the command 
triad and are automatically deleted every 90 days. 
To request a Virtual CO Suggestion Box, a member of the command triad can go 
to the following link 
https://usnavy.gov1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_cx3MPZ0dS6OX0V0 
        (3) DEOCS Combined Reports.  To help ISICs determine trends for their 
subordinate commands, the DEOCS combined report function allows users to 
aggregate or roll-up data from two or more DEOCS. 
The combined reports can be accessed through the DEOCS Interactive Action 
Dashboard by select CCSs. 
 
12.  This NAVADMIN supersedes NAVADMIN 139/23. 
 
13.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

