UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 232232Z FEB 21 MID200000605754U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 046/21

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/FEB//

SUBJ/CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS PROFESSIONAL READING PROGRAM (CNO-PRP) 
REVISIONS (CORRECTED COPY)//

RMKS/1.  Nearly 200 years ago, the Navy ordered its ships be outfitted with a 
reading list of 37 books in order to help train and educate Sailors.
The leaders of the Navy knew then what is still the case today: to out think 
our competitors we must study and apply lessons we have learned from our 
past.
Furthermore, it is critically important for our Navy to be a learning 
organization.  One of the very best ways to do that is to foster an 
environment where every Sailor deepens their level of understanding and 
learning.

2.  That is why we are launching an updated Chief of Naval Operations 
Professional Reading Program (CNO-PRP) reading list, with a motto of Read 
Well to Lead Well.  The updated list can be found at the CNO Reading Program
website: https://www.navy.mil/CNO-Professional-Reading-Program.

3.  This year we significantly revised the CNO-PRP to better serve Sailors, 
who will help our fighting force expand their personal and professional 
development beyond that of their primary designators and ratings.
More than just a reading list, actively participating in the CNO-PRP will:
- Enhance professionalism and improve critical thinking skills
- Foster a deep appreciation for Naval and military history and heritage
- Increase knowledge of joint warfighting and strengthen the ability to make 
sound decisions
- Develop greater appreciation of the views of others and a better 
understanding of our changing world
- Encourage discussion about the maritime profession and the evolving role of 
modern Seapower

4.  The structure of the program was revised to make books more accessible to 
Sailors. Specific changes include:
- Alignment of 53 titles with my four key lines of effort: Sailors, 
Readiness, Capabilities, and Capacity. They are sub-divided into tiers of 
Foundational, Advanced, and Capstone, indicating which books are appropriate 
during various stages of a Sailors career
- 21 books MCPON has identified as recommended reading

5.  Most of the 74 CNO-PRP titles will be available in both e-book and 
digital audio format from the Navy MWR digital library overdrive collection 
at:  https ://www.Navymwrdigitallibrary.org. Security restrictions may limit 
the ability to download these books on Navy-owned computers, so downloading 
them to personally -owned devices is encouraged.

6.  This list is not intended to discourage additional professional reading 
in any way. Rather, it serves to provide easy access to just a few of the 
many titles that will benefit our Sailors and ultimately our service.  The 
entire list, with book summaries and additional information, is available at 
https://www.navy.mil/CNO-Professional-Reading-Program.

7.  Actions:  Commanders, Commanding Officers, and Officers in Charge will:
a.  Actively promote the CNO-PRP, incorporating it into command professional 
education programs and general military training by creating opportunities to 
read and discuss the books.
b.  Develop innovative methods to promote active participation in the CNO-
PRP.
In the past, many commands established reading groups, essay contests, and 
special liberty rewards for dedicated professional readers.

8.  Warfighting development is essential to our force, especially in great 
power competition. Reading, discussing, and understanding the ideas found in 
these books will not only improve ourselves, but also improve our knowledge 
contributing to maintaining our warfighting advantage.  I encourage everyone 
serving to use reading as another way to prepare and continue to develop 
themselves in our great Navy and to hold fast to our core values of Honor, 
Courage, and Commitment.  Remember, Read Well to Lead Well.

9.  Released by Admiral Mike Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations.

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


