ROUTINE
R 012034Z SEP 22 MID600052244375U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
NAVY INSIDER THREAT HUB ELEMENT WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 200/22

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/SEP//

SUBJ/U.S. NAVY INSIDER THREAT AWARENESS MONTH//

REF/A/DOC/NDAA/23DEC16//
AMPN/REF A IS NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017, 
SECTION 951//
 
POC/SEAWARD/CIV/NIA-N7/TEL:  (703) 604-5471/
EMAIL:  ARLENE.SEAWARD.CIV(AT)US.NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Navys observance of and participation in 
the National Insider Threat Awareness Month (NITAM) during September 2022. 
The NAVADMIN also informs of the divestiture of the Department of the Navy 
(DON) Insider Threat Analytic Hub and establishment of the Navy Insider 
Threat Analytic Hub (Navy Hub).

2.  The National Counterintelligence and Security Center and the National 
Insider Threat Task Force launched NITAM in 2019, partnering with federal 
agencies across the government and industry to educate about the risks posed 
by insiders and the role of insider threat programs.
    a.  The theme for NITAM 2022 is Critical Thinking in Digital Spaces. 
Digital Spaces include virtual technology, such as various social media 
platforms that can be utilized by malicious actors to circumvent national 
security.  By recognizing these issues, the workforce will be more resilient 
to tactics, such as social engineering, solicitation by adversaries, and 
malignant information spread through digital means.  To promote NITAM, Navy 
will produce a Counter -Insider Threat video and distribute various 
educational products, including flyers, posters, brochures, and notepads.  
The intent is for Navy personnel to recognize indicators of potential insider 
threats and report them to the newly formed Navy Insider Threat Hub.
    b.  Protecting Navy Sailors, civilians, contractors, and their families 
from insider threats is a Navy priority.  The Navy Insider Threat Program 
will use the month of September 2022 to promote insider threat awareness 
throughout the Fleet.  Navys intent is to assist and inform commanders and 
provide commands with early intervention assistance for individuals that may 
be in need, facing hardships in their lives, or demonstrating potentially 
malicious behavior in the workplace.

3.  Insider Threat Definition.  As defined in reference (a), a threat 
presented by a person who:
    a.  Has, or once had, authorized access to information, a facility, 
network, person, or resource of the Department; and
    b.  Wittingly, or unwittingly, commits:
        (1)  An act in contravention of law or policy that resulted in, or 
might result in, harm through the loss or degradation of government or 
company information, resources, or capabilities; or
        (2)  A destructive act, which may include physical harm to another in 
the workplace.

4.  The Navy Insider Threat Program is designed to prevent, detect, deter, 
and mitigate insider threats.  The program focuses on measures aimed at 
preventing unauthorized disclosure of classified information, as well as 
identifying and deterring future workplace violence or harm to Navy personnel 
or resources.

5.  Pursuant to an Under Secretary of the Navy directive, the consolidated 
DON Insider Threat Analytic Hub (USN and USMC) was dissolved on 5 July 2022. 
Per direction, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Information Warfare 
(OPNAV N2N6)/Naval Intelligence Activity (NIA) assumed operational control of 
the newly formed Navy Insider Threat Analytic Hub on that date.  The U.S. 
Navy administratively and operationally manages the Navys Insider Threat 
Analytic Hub.  OPNAV N2N6, through Director NIA, assumes management, 
oversight, and programmatic control of the newly formed Navy Hub.

6.  The Navy Hub is established to receive Sailor, civilian, or contractor 
reporting of potential insider threats which may be observed within the 
workplace or during social/after-hours situations.  Reporting to the Navy Hub 
or to Navy Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) is anonymous and requires 
positive action by anyone who observes or perceives potential malicious or 
harmful activity throughout the Navy.

7.  The Navy Insider Threat Program encourages everyone to be observant of 
behaviors of concern and to report them so early intervention can occur, 
leading to positive outcomes for at-risk individuals and reduced risks to our 
organizations, information or personnel.  Recognize the Potential Risk 
Indicator signs and report insider threat concerns anonymously to the Navy 
Insider Threat Analytic Hub at (703) 695-7700, insiderthreat.fct(at)navy.mil, 
or https://www.secnav.navy.mil/itp/Pages/default.aspx.

8.  Counter-Insider Threat educational and training resources can be found at
https://www.cdse.edu/Training/Security-Posters/Insider-Threat/ and can be 
posted in common areas.  Mandatory Counterintelligence Awareness training 
given annually by NCIS or online in Total Workforce Management System 
discusses Insider Threat and what you can do to respond to potential 
malicious activity.

9.  The Navy will continue to support national and Department of Defense 
efforts to counter insider threats.  Keeping the workforce safe requires your 
vigilance and timely reporting of any observed suspicious activity or 
potentially threatening behaviors.  This partnership is essential to our 
nation’s ability to counter the threat from within.

10.  Released by VADM Jeffrey E. Trussler, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
