UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 241805Z NOV 21 MID600051218572U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC 
CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 268/21 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/NOV// 
 
SUBJ/REQUIRED COVID-19 TESTING FOR UNVACCINATED SERVICE MEMBERS// 
 
REF/A/MEMO/USD/DOC/29OCT21// 
REF/B/NAVADMIN/31AUG21 
REF/C/MEMO/SD/24AUG21 
REF/D/DOD/FMR VOL 10 CH 11 
REF/E/NAVADMIN/02JUN21 
REF/F/NAVADMIN/23AUG21 
REF/G/DOC/19NOV21 
REF/H/DOC/19NOV21 
REF/I/SECNAVINST/20MAY2019 
 
NARR/REF A IS USD P&R MEMO FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION (FHP) SUPPLEMENT 23 
REVISION 2  DOD GUIDANCE FOR CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 VACCINATION 
ATTESTATION, SCREENING, TESTING, AND VACCINATION VERIFICATION. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 190/21, 2021-2022 NAVY MANDATORY COVID-19 VACCINATION AND 
REPORTING POLICY. 
REF C IS SECDEF MEMO MANDATING CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 VACCINATION FOR DOD 
SERVICE MEMBERS. 
REF D IS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REGULATION, VOLUME 10, 
CHAPTER 11, PAYMENT AS REIMBURSEMENT FOR PERSONAL EXPENDITURES. 
REF E IS NAVADMIN 110/21, U.S. NAVY COVID-19 STANDING GUIDANCE UPDATE 1. 
REF F IS NAVADMIN 180/21, UPDATE 3 TO NAVY COVID-19 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS. 
REF G IS DLA COVID-19 HOME TEST KITS ORDERING PROCEDURES. 
REF H IS PPE MATERIAL STORED AT A DLA DEPOT ORDERING PROCEDURES. 
REF I IS SECNAV INSTRUCTION 5211.5F, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY PRIVACY PROGRAM. 
POC/OPNAV/CAPT STEVEN TARR III, (703) 614-9250//EMAIL: 
STEVEN.TARR1.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL 
 
RMKS/ 1.  Purpose.  This NAVADMIN implements the reference (a) requirement to 
conduct screening testing of service members who have not been vaccinated 
against the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). 
 
2.  Applicability 
2.a.  This guidance applies to Active and Reserve Component service members 
who have not been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in accordance with 
references (a), (b), and (c), including those who have an exemption request 
under review or who are exempted from COVID-19 vaccination and are entering 
a Department of Defense (DoD) facility. 
2.b. Guidance for testing unvaccinated government civilians and contractors 
will be released separately.  Until this guidance is issued, current guidance 
per reference (a) applies and Commanding Officers and Officers in Charge 
continue to be authorized broad discretion in applying additional measures 
as they deem necessary, including applicable elements of this NAVADMIN. 
3.  Policy Guidance 
3.a.  Weekly testing.  Reference (a) mandates that unvaccinated service 
members will be subject to screening testing for COVID-19 at least weekly 
when entering a DoD facility that includes the service members normal place 
of work.  This testing will commence for Navy service members when the 
following two conditions have been met: (1) no earlier than the active-duty 
vaccination deadline of 28 November 2021 or the reserve deadline of 
28 December 2021, as applicable to the individuals component; and, (2) the 
command has the required supplies to administer testing per this 
NAVADMIN.  For purposes of this NAVADMIN, facility is a Navy-administered 
building, vessel, or other enclosed indoor area where official business is 
conducted.  For vessels, this guidance applies whether the vessel is underway 
or in port. Additionally, the term work space includes all areas where 
official business takes place, to exclude entry areas such as the Quarterdeck 
where testing/screening may be conducted if necessary to avoid inclement 
weather, security concerns, or other reasons that such screening cannot be 
performed outdoors. 
3.b.  Exception for service members working remotely.  Unvaccinated service 
members who work remotely full time, or who perform duties in facilities or 
work spaces periodically (less-than-weekly basis), are not subject to weekly 
testing.  However, prior to entering a Navy facility or work space, these 
service members must provide a negative result from a test performed within 
the preceding 72 hours per paragraph 4. 
3.c.  The testing requirements in paragraphs 3.a. and 3.b. apply to each 
facility or work space entered.  Meeting the requirements to enter one 
facility or work space does not guarantee entry into any other facility or 
work space without specific coordination and approval.  See paragraph 4.e. 
below.  For example, if an unvaccinated service member assigned to command 1, 
who meets command 1 weekly testing requirements, must attend a meeting 
at command 2, that service member must also meet command 2 testing/entry 
requirements on the day of entry, unless prior approval has been obtained 
from command 2. 
 
4.  COVID-19 testing requirements and reporting for unvaccinated service 
members. 
4.a.  Commanding Officers and Officers in Charge will execute the screening 
testing requirement with COVID-19 self-collection kits or self-tests per 
paragraph 3 above for all unvaccinated service members within their chain of 
command, and any unvaccinated visiting service members entering their work 
spaces. 
4.b.  Screening self-collection kits or self-tests do not require medical 
support to complete or to document test results. Organizations and service 
members must follow Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and manufacturer 
guidelines for these tests. 
4.c.  When required, the screening test shall be administered and results 
received before the service member proceeds to the facility work area. 
4.d.  Organizations should provide for on-site testing to the maximum extent 
possible.  See paragraph 6 for test ordering and budget guidance.  However, 
if on-site testing is not feasible, service members may perform self-testing 
or provide the results from a public, community, or commercial testing 
center.  If the service member incurs costs, commands shall refer to 
reference (d) for procedures to reimburse the service member.  Tests 
conducted in conjunction with diagnostic, travel, or other requirements meet 
the intent of this NAVADMIN.  All testing must meet the following 
requirements: 
4.d.(1)  The test kit must be authorized or approved by the FDA. 
This includes test kits listed as authorized by the FDA under an Emergency 
Use Authorization (EUA). 
4.d.(2)  If not covered by the requirements of weekly testing in paragraph 
3.a., the test must have been performed within the preceding 72 hours. 
4.d.(3)  The service member must retain documentation of the results of the 
test and present it upon request of supervisors and facility entry control 
personnel.  Required information includes the service members name, the date 
and time the test was conducted, the commercial trade name (brand name) of 
the test, and the result (i.e., positive or negative).  This documentation 
may be electronic, printed, or a facsimile.  Examples of acceptable 
electronic documentation include text message, email, digital photo, online 
health record, or a screenshot of any of the above.  Reasonable verification 
is all that is required, e.g. a screenshot of a self-test on a members phone 
constitutes identification of the member and the date of the test. 
4.e.  Visits between organizations by unvaccinated service members should be 
minimized.  If these visits are necessary per their normal duties, testing 
per this NAVADMIN may be coordinated across organizations and documented by 
the service members parent command. 
4.f.  Exemption for previous COVID-19 infection.  Per reference (e) and 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidance, unvaccinated 
service members who have recovered from a recent COVID-19 infection and who 
remain asymptomatic are exempted from regular screening testing for 90 days 
following their documented date of recovery from COVID-19 infection.  Service 
members must provide documentation from a medical provider that includes the 
date they may return to work (no longer transmissible) and the date after 
which screening testing should resume post COVID-19 infection (90 days post 
COVID-19 infection). 
4.g.  Positive screening tests.  Service members with a positive result 
following COVID-19 screening tests shall immediately report to medical for a 
confirmatory laboratory-based molecular polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test 
from the nearest servicing Military Treatment Facility (MTF). 
4.g.(1)  If obtaining a confirmatory PCR test at an MTF is not feasible, such 
diagnostic confirmatory PCR tests may be obtained from a civilian community 
testing location at no cost to the service member (per paragraph 4.d above). 
4.g.(2)  Service members must provide results of confirmatory PCR testing to 
their chain of command. 
4.h.  Positive Confirmatory PCR Test.  Service members receiving a positive 
confirmatory PCR test will be treated as a positive COVID-19 case and handled 
in accordance with references (e) and (f). Service members awaiting test 
results shall not be granted access to the facility work spaces until either 
a negative result has been received or the service member has satisfied 
return to work criteria in accordance with reference (e).  Positive 
confirmatory PCR test results will be reported and managed in accordance with 
reference (f) and any other applicable national, state, local, or agency 
reporting requirements. 
4.i.  Negative Screening or Confirmatory PCR Tests.  Service members with no 
COVID-19 symptoms who receive a negative screening or confirmatory test may 
enter the facility work spaces.  At the discretion of the Commanding Officer, 
that service member may be credited with meeting the weekly testing 
requirement. 
 
5.  Responsibilities.  Commanders, Commanding Officers, and Officers in 
Charge will: 
5.a.  Identify assigned service members (both Active and Reserve Component) 
who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19 using the Medical Readiness 
Reporting System (MRRS), or as determined by the members medical provider if 
not yet included in MRRS, as detailed in reference (b). 
5.b.  Ensure all service members entering the work spaces of their facility 
meet one of these three requirements: (1) are fully vaccinated against COVID-
19 in accordance with reference (b), or (2) have received, and can provide 
documentation of, a negative COVID-19 test (rapid test or PCR) administered 
weekly or within the preceding 72 hours per paragraph 3 above, or (3) receive 
a negative COVID-19 test provided on-site. 
5.c.  Deny entry to any service member who does not meet the requirements of 
paragraph 5.b. above. 
 
6.  COVID-19 Test Ordering 
6.a.  Budget Submitting Offices (BSO) are responsible for funding test kits 
using existing command funding; BSOs may utilize any appropriation available 
for this purpose.  BSOs and commands shall purchase and maintain on-site 
testing resources sufficient to meet requirements of this NAVADMIN, including 
normal traffic of known unvaccinated service members and any foreseeable 
surge testing requirements (such as command-sponsored events or meetings held 
on-site). 
6.b.  Commands should follow Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) ordering 
procedures contained in references (g) and (h), or their current versions. 
6.c.  If advantageous to the government and with BSO approval, commands may 
procure tests from non-DLA sources or contract testing services to complete 
these requirements. 
6.d.  If sufficient facility or command testing resources are not available 
to meet these requirements, service members may be reimbursed for procuring 
test kits that meet paragraph 4.d. 
restrictions above.  BSOs and commands will follow guidance in accordance 
with reference (d).  BSOs shall promulgate information to commands under 
their purview regarding specific reimbursement processes. 
 
7.  COVID-19 Test Recording 
7.a.  All medical and other information collected from service members will 
be maintained in a manner meeting the privacy requirements in attachment (9) 
of reference (a).  Commands are encouraged to review this guidance, which 
includes information regarding who can collect this information; how to 
safeguard, transmit, and maintain this information; and which information 
must be protected per reference (i). 
7.b.  Commands shall log all tests conducted on-site, and all instances of 
service members providing valid proof of negative tests, in a visitor log 
maintained at the facility or work spaces point of entry (i.e., 
quarterdeck).  Note whether the test was conducted on-site.  Do not log test 
results (positive/negative) in this logbook. 
7.c.  Only tests conducted at an MTF should be recorded in the service 
members Electronic Health Record. 
 
8.  Released by VADM W. R. Merz, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Operations, Plans, and Strategy, OPNAV N3/N5.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
