UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 151203Z DEC 21 MID200001325643U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 283/21 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/DEC// 
 
SUBJ/CCDA EXECUTION GUIDANCE TO COMMANDERS// 
 
REF/A/MSG/CNO/311913ZAUG21// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO/132050ZOCT21// 
REF/C/MSG/CNO/152239ZNOV21// 
REF/D/DOC/SECDEF/24AUG21// 
REF/E/MSG/SECNAV/302126ZAUG21// 
REF/F/DOC/SECNAV/24JUL19// 
REF/G/DOC/OPNAV/30OCT19// 
REF/H/DOC/OPNAV/09OCT19// 
REF/I/DOC/OPNAV/09OCT19// 
REF/J/DOC/OPNAV/18OCT19// 
REF/K/MSG/CNO/011621ZNOV21// 
REF/L/DOC/10 US CODE/01JAN21// 
REF/M/DOC/10 US CODE/01JAN21// 
REF/N/DOC/10 US CODE/01JAN21// 
REF/O/MSG/CNO/241805ZNOV21// 
REF/P/DOC/SECDEF/30NOV21// 
REF/Q/DOC/10 US CODE/01JAN21// 
REF/R/DOC/10 US CODE/01JAN21// 
REF/S/DOC/BUPERINST 1730.11A/16MAR20// 
REF/T/DOC/OPNAV/15AUG20// 
REF/U/BUMEDINST 6230.15B/7OCT13// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 190/21, 2021-2022 NAVY MANDATORY COVID-19 VACCINATION 
AND REPORTING POLICY. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 225/21, COVID-19 CONSOLIDATED DISPOSITION AUTHORITY (CCDA). 
REF C IS NAVADMIN 256/21, CCDA GUIDANCE TO COMMANDERS. 
REF D IS THE SECRETARY OF THE DEFENSE MEMO MANDATING CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 
VACCINATION FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SERVICE MEMBERS. 
REF E IS ALNAV 062/21, 2021-2022 DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY MANDATORY COVID-19 
VACCINATION POLICY. 
REF F IS SECNAVINST 1920.6D, ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION OF OFFICERS. 
REF G IS MILPERSMAN 1611-010, OFFICER PERFORMANCE AND SEPARATIONS FOR CAUSE. 
REF H IS MILPERSMAN 1910-142, SEPARATION BY REASON OF MISCONDUCT - COMMISSION 
OF A SERIOUS OFFENSE. 
REF I IS MILPERSMAN 1910-233, MANDATORY SEPARATION PROCESSING. 
REF J IS MILPERSMAN 1910-010, ENLISTED ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION (ADSEP) 
POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION. 
REF K IS NAVADMIN 249/21, CCDA DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS. 
REF L IS 10 U.S. CODE SECTION 8330, ENLISTED MEMBERS: TRANSFER TO FLEET 
RESERVE AND FLEET MARINE CORPS RESERVE; RETAINER PAY. 
REF M IS 10 U.S. CODE SECTION 8326, ENLISTED MEMBERS: 30 YEARS. 
REF N IS 10 U.S. CODE SECTION 1370, REGULAR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS. 
REF O IS NAVADMIN 268/21, REQUIRED COVID-19 TESTING FOR UNVACCINATED SERVICE 
MEMBERS. 
REF P IS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMO ADDRESSING CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 
VACCINATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD AND THE READY RESERVE. 
REF Q IS 10 U.S. CODE SECTION 8323, OFFICERS: 20 YEARS. 
REF R IS 10 U.S. CODE SECTION 12731, AGE AND SERVICE REQUIREMENTS. 
REF S IS BUPERSINST 1730.11A, STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE 
ACCOMMODATION OF RELIGIOUS PRACTICES. 
REF T IS MILPERSMAN 1730-020, IMMUNIZATION EXEMPTIONS FOR RELIGIOUS BELIEFS. 
REF U IS BUMEDINST 6230.15B, IMMUNIZATIONS AND CHEMOPROPHYLAXIS FOR THE 
PREVENTION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE. 
 
RMKS/1.  Purpose.  Since we are now past the last date that any Navy service 
member may receive the vaccine and meet the deadlines specified in reference 
(a), this NAVADMIN provides execution guidance regarding separation of Navy 
service members refusing the COVID-19 vaccine as directed in references (a) 
through (e). 
 
2.  Policy.  In order to ensure a fully vaccinated force, U.S. Navy policy 
is, first, that all Navy service members receive the vaccine as directed and, 
second, that any who refuse the vaccine be processed for separation at the 
earliest possible opportunity. 
While the vast majority of Navy service members have already received the 
vaccine, it remains in the interest of the Navy to encourage remaining Navy 
service members to become fully vaccinated as soon as possible and, at such 
time, consider them for retention. Regarding those who refuse the vaccine, 
the following policy will be implemented to maximize speed and equity in 
achieving a fully vaccinated force: 
2.a.  Navy service members eligible or approved to separate or retire on or 
before 1 June 2022.  Upon request, permit separation or retirement (as 
applicable) as soon as practicable via expedited processes, in lieu of 
administrative separation processing.  Barring extenuating circumstances, 
this will result in an HONORABLE characterization of service. 
2.b.  Navy service members not eligible to separate or retire on or before 1 
June 2022:  Process for administrative separation as soon as practicable 
based on misconduct. 
2.b.(1).  Less than 6 years of service:  Process for separation with an 
HONORABLE characterization.  Service members in this category are not 
entitled to an Administrative Separation (ADSEP) board or a Board of Inquiry. 
2.b.(2).  More than 6 years of service:  Process for separation with a 
GENERAL (under honorable conditions) characterization, however, requests to 
waive Administrative Separation boards or Boards of Inquiry in exchange for 
HONORABLE characterization of service will generally be favorably endorsed 
(barring additional misconduct or unique circumstances). 
2.c.  The separation guidance in this NAVADMIN applies to active duty, full 
time support (FTS)/training and administration of the reserve (TAR), and 
selected reserve (SELRES) Navy service members refusing the 
vaccine.  Paragraph 6, below, provides additional guidance regarding Navy 
Reserve service members refusing the vaccine.  Navy service members in the 
Individual Ready Reserve (IRR), as well as U.S. Naval Academy (USNA) and 
Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) midshipmen remain subject to the 
vaccine mandates in references (a), (d), and (e), but will be processed per 
their governing instructions. 
 
3.  Action.  Commanders are now directed to conduct separation processing IAW 
this NAVADMIN and per references (f) through (j). 
3.a.  If a Navy service member refusing the vaccine changes their mind and 
subsequently receives the vaccine, but cannot meet the deadline specified in 
references (a) and (e), Commanders must expeditiously report that fact to the 
COVID Consolidated Disposition Authority (CCDA) via *PERS-834(at)navy.mil* 
for officers and *832vaccineadseps.fct(at)navy.mil* for enlisted, in order to 
expedite determination regarding pausing or permanently waiving the 
administrative actions directed by references (b), (c) and this 
NAVADMIN.  Commanders are reminded to update the data required by reference 
(k) in such cases. 
3.b.  Separation processing for Navy service members refusing the vaccine 
will be IAW this NAVADMIN.  Where the terms of this NAVADMIN regarding 
separation processing conflict with references (a) through (c), this NAVADMIN 
supersedes and replaces that previous guidance. 
However, unless specifically waived by the CCDA based on receiving the 
vaccine, all other administrative actions associated with vaccine refusal 
described in references (b) and (c) including but not limited to pay, 
promotion/advancement, fitness reports/evaluations, etc. continue to apply in 
all cases of Navy service members refusing the vaccine. 
3.c.  Officer and enlisted service members separated based on vaccine refusal 
will not be eligible for involuntary separation pay. 
3.d.  Officers separated based on vaccine refusal who have not completed a 
service obligation incurred by attending the U.S. Naval Academy, receipt of a 
Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps Scholarship, or receipt of other 
advanced education funds will be required to repay their educational expenses 
IAW existing agreements. 
3.e.  The command endorsement section of separation requests processed in 
NSIPS per this NAVADMIN must clearly indicate *COVID-19 VACCINE REFUSAL* and 
Commanders must closely monitor progress and results throughout the process. 
3.f.  Navy service members with approved or pending COVID-19 vaccination 
exemption requests shall not be processed for separation per this 
NAVADMIN.  Navy service members whose COVID-19 vaccination exemption request 
is subsequently denied are required to receive the COVID-19 vaccine as 
directed by the exemption adjudicating authority or if the exemption 
adjudicating authority does not specify, commence vaccination within 5 days 
of being notified of the denial. Navy service members who subsequently refuse 
the COVID-19 vaccine after expiration of the specified time to commence 
vaccination will be processed for separation per this NAVADMIN.  Commanders 
are reminded to update the data required by reference (k) in such cases. 
3.g.  Any officer or enlisted service member refusing the vaccine who has a 
currently-approved separation or retirement (as of the date of this NAVADMIN) 
for a date on or before 1 June 2022 will be permitted to execute their 
separation or retirement without additional administrative separation 
processing described below. 
3.h.  For the purposes of this message, use of the word *retirement* in the 
case of enlisted personnel should be read to include transfer to the fleet 
reserve, when eligible. 
 
4.  Officer Processing: Except as provided in paragraph 3.g, the CCDA, as the 
show cause authority, has directed mandatory show cause processing for all 
officers who refuse the vaccine IAW reference (f) on the bases of Misconduct, 
Moral or Professional Dereliction, and Substandard Performance. 
4.a.  Commanders shall delay submitting a report of misconduct for officers 
who are beyond their minimum service requirement (MSR) to determine if they 
are eligible and desire to request an unqualified retirement or resignation 
in line with para 2.a.  For officers who are not eligible and/or do not 
desire to request to retire or resign on or before 1 June 2022, Commanders 
shall initiate processing for separation by submitting a report of misconduct 
to Commander, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-834) per reference (g) as soon as 
practicable, but not later than 21 January 2022.  The template for this 
report may be found at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-covid-19-
reporting.   
For officers who are eligible, request and are command sponsored (via NSIPS) 
to retire or resign on or before 1 June 2022, reports of misconduct are not 
required.  However, if requests for retirement or resignation are disapproved 
by higher authority, the provisions of this paragraph regarding required 
reports of misconduct and officer show cause will again apply.  In those 
cases, reports of misconduct must be initiated within 5 days of retirement or 
resignation disapproval. 
4.a.(1).  Unqualified resignation or retirement requests in line with this 
paragraph must be submitted no later than 21 January 2022 with a separation 
date no later than 1 June 2022. 
4.a.(2).  Officers who have not met all Time in Grade (TIG) requirements will 
not be recommended for a TIG waiver and will be recommended to retire at the 
next lower grade in which the officer served on active duty satisfactorily. 
4.a.(3).  Officers with prior enlisted service, more than 20 years of active 
service, and less than 10 years of commissioned service (YCS) are not 
qualified for a regular officer retirement, but will be permitted to resign 
their commission and reenlist in the highest enlisted paygrade previously 
held for the sole purpose of retiring IAW references (l) and (m). 
4.a.(4).  In cases where an officer is notified after 7 January 2022 that 
their exemption request was denied and continues to refuse the vaccine, that 
officer will be provided 14 days from the date of such notification to 
request resignation or retirement in line with paragraph 4.a. above, if they 
are eligible and desire to make such a request.  Such requests must still 
ensure resignation or retirement on or before 1 June 2022. 
4.b.  Eligible.  An officer eligible to resign is, generally, one who has 
completed or will complete their minimum service requirement on or before 1 
June 2022.  An officer eligible to retire is, generally, one who has 
completed or will complete at least 20 years of service on or before 1 June 
2022.  Additional service obligation incurred due to such Navy benefits as 
education and bonuses may be waived, at the discretion of the CCDA or higher 
authority, in exchange for agreement to repay any unearned portion of the 
benefit. Each case will be individually adjudicated for final determination. 
4.c.  Probationary Officers (as defined in reference (f), but generally less 
than 6 years of commissioned service). 
4.c.(1).  Except as provided in paragraphs 3.g. and 4.a., probationary 
officers who refuse the vaccine will be directed to show cause for retention 
by notification procedures.  The least favorable characterization of service 
shall be HONORABLE, unless inclusion of another basis for separation warrants 
a less favorable characterization.  The show cause authority will direct 
processing after receiving reports of misconduct. 
4.c.(2).  Once notification is complete IAW reference (f) enclosure 11, the 
matter will be submitted to the Secretary of the Navy for final adjudication. 
4.d.  Non-Probationary Officers (as defined in reference (f), but generally 
greater than 6 years of commissioned service). 
4.d.(1).  Except as provided in paragraphs 3.g. and 4.a., non- probationary 
officers who refuse the vaccine will be directed to show cause for retention 
by Board of Inquiry procedures.  The least favorable characterization of 
service directed for consideration will be GENERAL (under honorable 
conditions), unless inclusion of another basis for separation warrants a less 
favorable characterization. 
4.d.(2).  Non-probationary officers who refuse the vaccine who will not be 
retirement or resignation eligible on or before 1 June 2022, will not have 
completed their MSR before 1 June 2022, are denied requests for unqualified 
resignation/retirement, or who do not prefer separation or retirement IAW 
with paragraph 4.a. above will, in the course of show cause proceedings, be 
offered the opportunity to submit a qualified resignation or, in some cases, 
a retirement request, for discharge with an HONORABLE characterization of 
service in exchange for waiving their right to a Board of Inquiry. 
4.d.(2).(a).  Qualified resignation or retirement requests under this 
paragraph must be submitted no later than 14 days after notification to the 
officer. 
4.d.(2).(b).  Officers requesting retirement under this paragraph will be 
recommended to the Secretary of the Navy for retirement in grade so long as 
time-in-grade requirements are met IAW references (f) and (n). 
4.d.(2).(c).  Officers requesting retirement under this paragraph, who have 
not met all TIG requirements will not be recommended for a TIG waiver and 
will be recommended to retire at the next lower grade in which the officer 
served on active duty satisfactorily. 
4.d.(2).(d).  Officers with prior enlisted service, more than 20 years of 
active service, and less than 10 years of commissioned service (YCS) are not 
qualified for a regular officer retirement, but will be permitted to resign 
their commission and reenlist in the highest enlisted paygrade previously 
held for the sole purpose of retiring IAW references (l) and (m). 
4.d.(3).  Non-probationary officers who refuse the vaccine who do not avail 
themselves of the opportunities and options provided above will be subject to 
show cause through Boards of Inquiry with GENERAL (under honorable 
conditions) as the least favorable characterization 
of service. 
 
5.  Enlisted Processing.  Except as provided in paragraph 3.g., the CCDA has 
directed that Commanders shall initiate the administrative separation process 
for all enlisted service members refusing the vaccine under reference (h), 
Misconduct-Commission of a Serious Offense, plus any additional basis known 
at the time of processing. The provisions of reference (g) and MILPERSMAN 
1910 (series) apply: treat vaccine refusal cases as though they were listed 
in reference (i). 
5.a.  Commanders shall delay initiating administrative separation processing 
for enlisted service members who have greater than 20 years of service or 
have an end of active obligated service (EAOS) on or before 1 June 2022 to 
determine if they are eligible and desire to request separation or retirement 
in line with para 2.a. 
For those who are not eligible and/or do not desire to make such a request, 
initiate administrative separation processing as soon as practicable, but not 
later than 21 January 2022.  For those who are eligible, request and are 
command sponsored to separate or retire on or before 1 June 2022, 
administrative separation processing is not required.  However, if such 
requests are disapproved by higher authority, the provisions of this 
paragraph requiring separation processing will again apply.  In those cases, 
administrative separation processing must be initiated within 5 days of 
disapproval. 
5.a.(1).  Separation or retirement requests in line with this paragraph must 
be submitted no later than 21 January 2022. 
5.a.(2).  Enlisted service members with an expected EAOS on or before 1 June 
2022 may request such separation through use of the Enlisted Personnel Action 
Request Form NAVPERS 1306/7.  Requests may be approved by Commanders as 
described in existing procedures. 
5.a.(3).  Enlisted service members retiring who submit a request IAW this 
paragraph will be retired in grade so long as TIG requirements are met. 
5.a.(4).  Enlisted service members who have not met all TIG requirements will 
be ineligible for a TIG waiver and will be retired at the next lower 
grade.  Enlisted service members must include their willingness to retire at 
a lower pay grade within their request.  Commanders must also provide a 
narrative in the comments that the request is being submitted IAW this 
NAVADMIN. 
5.a.(5).  In cases where an enlisted service member is notified after 7 
January 2022 that their exemption request was denied and continues to refuse 
the vaccine, that enlisted service member will be provided 14 days from the 
date of such notification to request separation or retirement in line with 
paragraph 5.a. above, if they are eligible and desire to make such a 
request.  Such requests must still ensure separation or retirement on or 
before 1 June 2022. 
5.b.  Eligible.  An enlisted service member eligible to separate is, 
generally, one who will reach their EAOS on or before 1 June 2022. An 
enlisted service member eligible to retire is, generally, one who has 
completed or will complete at least 20 years of service on or before 1 June 
2022.  Additional service obligations incurred due to such Navy benefits as 
education and bonuses may be waived, at the discretion of the CCDA or higher 
authority, in exchange for agreement to repay any unearned portion of the 
benefit.  Each case will be individually adjudicated for final determination. 
5.c.  Enlisted service members with less than 6 years of total service 
(and/or reserve military service) at the time of notification. 
5.c.(1).  Except as provided in paragraphs 3.g. and 5.a., enlisted service 
members with less than 6 years of total service shall be processed for 
separation using notification procedures.  The least favorable 
characterization of service shall be HONORABLE, unless significant and 
persistent negative aspects of the members conduct or performance of duty in 
the current enlistment outweigh positive aspects of the members service 
record, or if inclusion of another basis for separation warrants a less 
favorable characterization. 
5.c.(2).  Once the cognizant Commander completes notification, commands shall 
endorse and forward to PERS-8 at *832vaccineadseps.fct(at)navy.mil*, which 
will forward to the applicable separation authority and then direct 
separation as appropriate. 
5.d.  Enlisted service members with more than 6 years of total service 
(and/or reserve military service) at the time of notification. 
5.d.(1).  Except as provided in paragraphs 3.g. and 5.a., enlisted service 
members with more than 6 years of total service shall be processed using 
administrative board procedures.  The least favorable characterization of 
service shall be GENERAL (under honorable conditions), unless inclusion of 
another basis for separation warrants a less favorable characterization. 
5.d.(2).  Enlisted service members with more than 6 years of total service 
who are not eligible for retirement, have an EAOS after 1 June 2022, are 
denied a request for separation or retirement, or who do not prefer 
separation IAW with paragraph 5.a. above, may request to conditionally waive 
an administrative separation board in exchange for separation or retirement 
(as applicable) with an HONORABLE characterization of service. 
5.d.(2).(a).  Conditional waiver requests for separation or retirement must 
be received by the Commander no later than 14 days after notification. 
5.d.(2).(b).  Unless there are extenuating circumstances, the Commander will 
favorably endorse the conditional waiver request and forward to PERS 8 at 
*832vaccineadseps.fct(at)navy.mil*, which will forward to the applicable 
separation authority and then direct separation as appropriate.  Commanders 
should generally disapprove a conditional waiver only where additional 
misconduct (other than vaccine refusal) is present. 
5.d.(3).  Enlisted service members requesting retirement IAW this paragraph 
may be recommended for retirement in grade if time in grade requirements are 
met (as applicable).  If TIG requirements are not met, they may be 
recommended for retirement at the next lower grade. 
5.d.(4).  Enlisted service members with more than 6 years of total service 
who do not avail themselves of the opportunities and options above will 
continue to be processed for administrative separation with GENERAL (under 
honorable conditions) as the least favorable characterization of service. 
5.e.  In order to streamline processing of enlisted separation 
cases, commands are directed to visit 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Personnel-Conduct-
Sep/Enlisted-Separations/ for reference materials, letter of transmittal 
templates and checklists to be used when submitting enlisted active and 
FTS/TAR ADSEP cases to *832vaccineadseps.fct(at)navy.mil*. 
 
6.  Additional Navy Reserve Guidance: 
6.a.  Navy service members who refuse the vaccine and separate from the 
active component (AC) will not be permitted to affiliate with or be assigned 
in any status within the reserve component (RC). 
6.b.  Separations for Navy Reserve service members refusing the vaccine will 
be conducted at the Navy Reserve Center to which the members are 
assigned.  In order to be processed for retirement, separation or 
resignation, all Navy Reserve service members refusing the vaccine who are on 
active duty (ACDU), to include active duty for operational support (ADOS) and 
definite recall, shall be released from active duty (RAD) and returned to a 
reserve status no later than 21 Jan 2022. 
6.c.  Navy Reserve service members on ACDU orders, to include active duty for 
operational support (ADOS) and definite recall, who submitted a vaccine 
exemption request which is subsequently denied after 7 Jan 2022, and refuse 
the vaccine following the expiration of the specified time to commence 
vaccination, shall be released from active duty (RAD) and returned to a 
reserve status within 14 days of being notified of the denial. 
6.d.  Commanders must notify the Orders Issuing Authority (OIA), either PERS-
92 or PERS-4X, as soon as possible if they have Navy Reserve service members 
refusing the vaccine on ACDU. 
6.e.  In accordance with reference (p), in no case will a Navy Reserve 
service member refusing the vaccine be granted authorized absence from drill 
or excused from other reserve duties based on failure to comply with 
vaccination requirements. 
6.f.  Active duty members (including FTS/TAR) who do not have 20 qualifying 
years to retire, but have earned qualifying years in the reserves and have a 
combination of active duty and reserve years to qualify for a non-
regular/reserve retirement under reference (r) should contact PERS-97 Career 
Transition Office by emailing your most current reserve Statement of Service 
to *cto.officer(at)navy.mil* for officers and *cto.enlisted(at)navy.mil* for 
enlisted members prior to 21 January 2022 to inform them of your intentions 
to be transferred to the reserves solely for the purpose of retirement. 
6.g.  *Retirement* for RC members includes transfer to the retired reserve 
and non-regular retirement as eligible. 
6.h.  Additional administrative guidance regarding Navy Reserve service 
members refusing the vaccine will be promulgated via a forthcoming 
ALNAVRESFOR message. 
 
7.  As a reminder, all unvaccinated Navy service members are subject to 
screening testing against COVID-19 IAW reference (o).  Commanders shall 
continue to update the status of unvaccinated service members IAW reference 
(k). 
 
8.  If in doubt as to how to adjudicate issues related to separation of a 
Navy service member refusing the vaccine, Commanders should seek guidance 
from their chain of command, their staff judge advocate, and/or the CCDA 
before acting.  Commands without an assigned legal advisor may seek legal 
advice from a Region Legal Service Office.  In all cases, Commanders are 
accountable to ensure the health and safety of their command while treating 
every Navy service member with dignity and respect. 
 
9.  Points of contact. 
My Navy Career Center: 833-330-6622, *askmncc(at)navy.mil*. 
PERS-8 Active/FTS enlisted separations: *832vaccineadseps.fct(at)navy.mil* 
PERS-8 officer separations: *PERS-834(at)navy.mil* 
PERS-8 Active/FTS/TAR enlisted retirements: 
*Enlisted_Active_Duty_Retirements(at)navy.mil* 
PERS-8 Active/FTS/TAR officer retirements: *pers_835_retirements(at)navy.mil* 
PERS-8 officer and enlisted promotion delays: 
NPC_promotionwithholds.fct(at)navy.mil* 
PERS-92 officer and enlisted definite recalls: *PERS-92(at)navy.mil*. 
PERS-9 Reserve enlisted separations: *913vaccineadseps.fct(at)navy.mil*. 
PERS-97 officer transitions: *cto.officer(at)navy.mil* 
PERS-97 enlisted transitions: *cto.enlisted(at)navy.mil* 
OPNAV POC: CAPT Jason Grizzle, *ALTN_N1_NAVY_SCR.FCT(AT)NAVY.MIL*. 
 
10.  Released by VADM John B. Nowell, Jr, COVID Consolidated Disposition 
Authority. 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
