ROUTINE 
R 221536Z JUL 22 MID200080059412U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 159/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/JUL// 
 
SUBJ/FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM POLICY UPDATES (CORRECTED COPY)// 
 
REF/A/INST/ DOD MANUAL 6400.01, VOLUME 3, 16JUL2021// 
REF/B/DOC/GAO-21-289// 
REF/C/INST/ DODI 6400.06 CHANGE 1,10MAY2022// 
REF/D/INST/OPNAVINST 1752.2C// 
REF/E//MSG/NAVADMIN 120/22// 
 
NARR/REF A IS DODI MANUAL, FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM.   
REF B IS GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE 21-289, DOMESTIC ABUSE:  ACTIONS 
NEEDED TO IMPROVE DODS PREVENTION, RESPONSE AND OVERSIGHT.   
REF C IS DODI 6400.06, CHANGE 1, COORDINATED COMMUNITY RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC 
ABUSE INVOLVING DOD AND CERTAIN MILITARY PERSONNEL.   
REF D IS NAVY FAMILY ADVOCACY OPNAVINST.  
REF E IS NAVADMIN 120/22, PROCEDURES FOR NOTIFYING CIVILIAN LAW ENFORCEMENT 
OF ISSUANCE OF A MILITARY PROTECTIVE ORDER.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides family advocacy program (FAP) policy updates 
inline with references (a) through (e) to include: 
    a.  Updated FAP policy for Commander, Navy Installations Command to 
implement (see paragraph 2). 
    b.  Expands the definition of intimate partners and personnel eligible 
for expedited transfers (see paragraph 3). 
    c.  Provides additional guidance for commanding officers on military 
protective orders and civilian protective orders (see paragraph 4) 
 
2.  FAP Program Updates and Victim Services.  Commander, Naval Installations 
Command must ensure: 
    a.  FAP victim advocates (VA): 
        (1) Possess or obtain within six months of hiring, at a minimum, the 
Basic Advocate Credential with a designation of Comprehensive Intervention 
Specialist, approved by the National Advocate Credentialing Program. 
        (2) Be trained to use the Victim Advocate Lethality Assessment 
Checklist.  The Victim Advocates (VA) Lethality Assessment Checklist is a 
CNIC form  that must be used in initial interviews with victims by FAP VAs to 
identify and reduce risk of death or serious physical harm. 
    b.  Installation FAP personnel coordinate with installation medical 
treatment facilities (MTF) to ensure medical representative participation at 
the installation Incident Determination Committee (IDC).  Reference (a) 
directs the Department of Health Affairs to designate a health care provider 
and alternate from, or via, the forensic healthcare program at the 
installation MTF or another MTF supporting the installation to serve as a 
core member on the installation IDC. The health care provider and alternate 
designated as core members are required to have the requisite medical 
training, expertise, and available consultation resources to offer a medical 
opinion on domestic abuse, child abuse, and neglect-related injuries. 
    c.  Each victim of domestic violence receives a comprehensive 
informational guide, written in a clear and easily understandable format, on 
the FAP and available services to include the following: 
        (1) Military law enforcement services, including an explanation of 
the process that follows a report of an incident of domestic abuse, child 
abuse or neglect. 
        (2) Notification for victims who have elected to file an unrestricted 
report of domestic abuse involving Special Victim Investigation and 
Prosecution covered offenses of their right to consult with a legal 
assistance attorney for legal support and their right to request Special 
Victims Counsel or Victim Legal Counsel (VLC) services, if eligible. 
        (3) Other applicable victim services. 
    d.  Pending the release of the Department of Defense (DoD) database to 
track domestic violence reports, case specific information on official 
unrestricted reports of adult sexual abuse will be entered into the Defense 
Sexual Assault Incident Database (DSAID) by the lead Sexual Assault Response 
Coordinator (SARC). Protocols for the SARC to enter FAP cases into DSAID will 
be determined by the DoD Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office and 
Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) N170.  CNIC will implement processes and 
quality assurance procedures to ensure FAP clinical providers notify SARCs of 
all domestic abuse unrestricted reports of adult sexual abuse. 
    e.  The FAP case manager or designated licensed clinical provider use the 
following assessment tools to assess risk level, severity level, safety and 
lethality concerns in domestic and child abuse cases: 
         (1) Domestic Abuse/Child Abuse Risk Assessment (DARA or CARA) 
tool.  The applicable form must be completed within three working days of 
initial interviews for all parties involved in the incident. The DARA or CARA 
tool is located within the Fleet and Family Support Management Information 
System (FFSMIS). 
         (2) The DoD Intimate Partner Physical Injury Risk Assessment (IPPT-
RAT).  The IPPT-RAT must be completed within three working days following the 
initial interviews with the alleged offender, victim and all family members 
involved in the incident. The IPPT-RAT is available in the FFSMIS case 
record. 
         (3) The FAP Incident Severity Scales (ISS).  The FAP-ISS tool is 
used to determine the severity level in all met criteria incidents of child 
abuse/neglect and domestic abuse, including intimate partner violence.  The 
severity level must be indicated on the initial clinical case staff meeting 
review form and clinical case notes must contain relevant information 
regarding the impact/level of harm and verification that the FAP ISS tool was 
used to determine the level of severity. The ISS is located on the 
Defense Manpower Data Center, Office of the Secretary of Defense (DMDC OSD) 
website. 
         (4) The Incident Report and Safety and Lethality Assessment Tool.   
This tool must be used to conduct the safety assessment to evaluate current 
suicidal/homicidal behaviors in alleged perpetrator(s) or in victims of 
sexual assault who are at risk.  The SLA is located in the FFSMIS case 
folder. 
     f.  FAP clinical providers and VAs must provide information about the 
Catch a Serial Offender (CATCH) program to all Service members and their 
adult dependents filing a restricted report of sexual abuse.  This program 
allows victims of adult sexual abuse to provide information to military 
investigators for the purpose of identifying serial offenders of sexual 
assault without breaching their restricted report. 
 
3.  Reference (c) updated the intimate partner definition to include a person 
who is, or has been, in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate 
nature with the alleged abuser, as determined by the length of the 
relationship, the type of relationship and the frequency of interaction 
between the person and the alleged abuser. These changes may impact the 
following: 
    a.  Expanded eligibility for FAP victim support services.  There may be 
circumstances in which adult intimate partner sexual assault victims are 
eligible for and can choose to receive, victim centric services from either 
the FAP or the sexual assault prevention and response advocacy service, based 
on the victims reported relationship to the abuser/offender.  FAP and SAPR 
personnel must ensure that an adult intimate partner sexual assault victim 
who is seeking services should never encounter a wrong door to getting the 
care and support they need and are provided a warm handoff approach to care, 
as needed. 
    b.  Expansion of expedited transfer requests.  Requests for expedited 
transfer now may be made by: 
        (1) An active duty victim of sexual or physical domestic violence 
allegedly committed by the spouse or intimate partner, whether or not the 
spouse or intimate partner is a Service Member. 
        (2) An active duty parent whose dependent is a victim of sexual 
assault allegedly perpetrated by a Service member who is not related to the 
victim. 
 
4.  Military Protective Orders (MPO) and Civilian Protective Orders (CPO) are 
necessary to protect victims.  Per references (b) and (e), Service Members 
must comply with civilian protective orders and military protective orders or 
face possible disciplinary actions for CPO/MPO violations.  COs must provide 
notice to any Service Member under a MPO or CPO that the Service Members 
failure to comply may result in administrative or other disciplinary action, 
to include potential prosecution in line with the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice.  Commanders should consult with the first Staff Judge Advocate in 
their chain of command to determine how to best address CPO/MPO violations. 
 
5.  Restricted Reporting. 
    a.  The Navy recognizes a victim may first tell someone (e.g., a friend, 
family member, peer or other confidante) about the abuse before being aware 
of reporting options or considering whether to file a restricted or 
unrestricted report.  A victims communication with another person does not 
prevent the victim from later electing to make a restricted report except in 
specific situations. Specifically, if a victim informs their chain of 
command, their alleged abusers chain of command, a DoD Law Enforcement 
Agency, or Military Criminal Investigative Organization outside of the CATCH 
program, there can be no restricted report.  However, if the chain of command 
finds out about the incident through independent channels, an investigation 
can be initiated, even if the victim has filed a restricted report. 
    b.  Consistent with current policy regarding privileged communications, 
victims may also speak to Chaplain Corps personnel about abuse without 
compromising their restricted or unrestricted reporting option(s), if the 
communication is for a spiritual purpose or assistance. 
 
6.  In line with reference (c), the Navy Chief of Chaplains must ensure all 
Navy Chaplains receive domestic violence training either by installation FAP 
or through initial accession training.  Chaplain training data should be 
forwarded annually to Chief of Naval Operations N171B FAP. 
 
7.  The domestic violence general military training (GMT) course 
will be available on Navy eLearning site fourth quarter FY-22 along 
with an update to the domestic violence mobile application training. 
 
8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, 
whichever occurs first.  The above policy changes will be included in the 
next update to reference (d). 
 
9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
