UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 011408Z MAY 20 MID510001155649U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 127/20

SUBJ/2020 AMERICAN LEGION SPIRIT OF SERVICE AWARD//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY// POC/WILLIAM LOVEJOY/FCC-C10F 
N13/TEL:  (443) 634-4586 EMAIL:
USFF_FCC_C10F_NSAH_CNODP(AT)NAVY.MIL//
POC/Kristine Garland/NAVCO/POC:  MILLINGTON, TN/TEL:  (901)874-5882/
EMAIL:  kristine.garland(AT)navy.mil

RMKS/1.  The American Legion will present its Spirit of Service Award to an 
enlisted member (E-5 and below) from each branch of the Armed Forces.  The 
award, given since 2000, will be presented by the National Commander, James 
Oxford, on stage at the Legion's national convention in Louisville, Kentucky, 
29 August - 3 September 2020.

2.  Eligibility.  The main criterion of the award is the level of volunteer 
community service that a Sailor performs off-duty in the local community.
Command-sponsored volunteer activities, either on duty or off, will not be 
counted. The period of service is 1 January 2019 - 31 December 2019, and 
nominees must be E-5 or below during the period of service.  Nominees may be 
active or reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals.
Previous winners of this award are not eligible.  If chosen as the recipient, 
the awardee must attend the American Legion national convention.

3.  Travel and lodging.  Within CONUS, the American Legion will provide 
travel and lodging expenses for the individual winner only.  The winner is 
responsible for travel expenses for family members or guests.  The winner 
will arrive at the convention hotel on Saturday, 29 August 2020, and depart 
Thursday, 3 September 2020.

4.  Nominations.  Nomination packages must contain the Commanding Officer's
(CO) nomination, a description of the volunteer service performed, a 
biography of the Sailor, a high-resolution JPEG head AND full body photograph 
of the Sailor and a signed consent for release of information.
    a.  Commanding Officer nomination.  COs may nominate one Sailor from 
their command.  Nominations must be on command letterhead and indicate the 
CO's confidence in the Sailor's professionalism and as a representative of 
the Navy, the validity of the volunteer efforts, and a commitment to 
facilitate their nominee's attendance at the national convention, if 
selected.  Endorsements are not required.

    b.  Volunteer efforts.  Description of volunteer efforts must include 
quantitative data such as hours, days, or months spent on off-duty volunteer 
community service.  Command sponsored volunteer activities, either on duty or 
off, will not be counted.  This description should be provided in a bullet 
format.
    c.  Nominee photos.  High-resolution JPEG head AND full-length 
photographs of the Sailor are required.  If chosen as the award recipient, 
the nominee's photo will be used in printed and online material used to 
publicize and document the award ceremony.  The headshot photo should be 
similar to those commonly associated with Navy leader biographies and 
official portrait photos.
    d.  Nominee biography.  If chosen as the award recipient, the biography 
will be used in the Legion's magazine and convention program.  The biography 
should include hometown information as well as professional highlights and 
qualifications.
    e.  Signed consent for release of information.  A written and signed 
statement of consent by the Sailor, authorizing release of information 
contained in the nomination, is required per the Privacy Act of 1974.  The 
following statement is a sample of written consent: "I, (rate/rank/full 
name), do hereby authorize the release of all information enclosed in this 
nomination package to those persons involved in the selection process."
    f.  Sample package.  A sample submission package can be found at 
https://www.outreach.navy.mil/Outreach/ExecutiveOutreach/

5.  Nomination submission.  Nominations must be received by 1 June 2020.
Nominations must be submitted electronically to kristine.garland@navy.mil.

6.  Selection process.  The Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO) will 
consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board, and recommend the top 
candidates to the American Legion, which will make the selection.  NAVCO will 
inform the winner and also notify those not selected.

7.  Released by Mr. Andrew S. Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.
//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

