UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 232010Z OCT 20 MID200000263126U

FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC BT
UNCLAS 

NAVADMIN 288/20
PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS// MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/OCT// 

SUBJ/2020 ARMY-NAVY GAME SPIRIT SPOTS// 

POC/LCDR CLINTON PHILLIPS/CHINFO OI-2/TEL:  (703) 614-9154/E-MAIL:
NAVYMEDIA(AT)NAVY.MIL//

RMKS/1. This year's Army-Navy game is scheduled for Saturday, 12 December 
2020 at Lincoln Financial Field (Philadelphia).  CBS Sports will televise the 
game and will once again accept "Go Navy, Beat Army" video spots from the 
Navy and Marine Corps.  Spirit spot submissions received will be considered 
for broadcast by CBS during the game.
a.We will not be able to tell you whether CBS will use your video.  You will 
have to watch the game to find out.  If your video does not make it on the 
broadcast, it still may be played on the stadium's video boards at the game.
b.The Navy Office of Information (CHINFO) and Defense Media Activity (DMA) 
will also push selected spirit spots to a variety of media outlets, flagship 
web and broadcast platforms, and social media sites prior to the game to help 
generate esprit de corps and as a way of highlighting our naval forces.

2.Requirements and best practices:
a.All spirit spots must be submitted from a Navy or Marine Corps activity.
b.The public release of spirit spots is not permitted until 7 December 2020.
c.Include the submitting command's name and location.
d.We want videos to help connect the American public with their Navy.  
Highlight why the Navy and Marine Corps are important to our nation by
showing:
(1)Forward deployment/active role in world affairs, global security and 
national economic prosperity.
(2)Development of strong leaders.
(3)Humanitarian and disaster relief initiatives.
(4)The unique opportunity to experience challenge and adventure at sea and 
around the world.
e.Avoid use of naval or military jargon or acronyms.
f.Do not submit group/command/formation shout outs in which a group is 
shouting a message. The audience will not understand what you are yelling.
g.If you want people to watch your video, make sure it has clean, clear audio 
and shows enthusiasm, humor, creativity and motivation.
h.Inclusion of Naval Academy graduates, unique locations, forward deployed 
locations and underway scenes is good.  Showing new platforms and unique 
naval capabilities is also good.
i.Do not include copyrighted or sensitive material or music, make any 
official or implied endorsements, or present commands or the Navy in a 
negative light.
j.Spots should be broadcast quality in one of the following file formats:
(1)Files should be at least 8 MB/S but no more than 100 MB/S and in MXF, 
MPEG, WMV, MP4, MOV, or AVI file formats.
(2)M4V, FLY, and SWF files are not accepted.
(3)Include a word document with the submitters points of contact, a suggested 
title, description, and release authority.
(4)All submissions must be High Definition (1920x1080, 1280x720) or Ultra-
High Definition (4k).
k.If you want your video considered for CBS broadcast, it must be 29 seconds 
or 59 seconds in length. Spots intended for social media or other web-only 
outlets should not be longer than two minutes.
l.Step up your clip art game.  Use high quality Navy branding graphics 
available for use on navy.mil in the graphics gallery.
m.Submit only ready-to-air spots.  Neither CBS nor CHINFO will do your post 
production editing for you.
n.Frame shots according to rules of good composition (avoid talking heads 
with no bodies) and avoid distracting backgrounds and inadvertent commercial 
product placement.
o.Good audio quality and sharp focus are both really important.  Poor sound 
quality will get your video rejected.  Check for over modulated audio, weak 
audio, unclear voices or background noise, and fix those problems.

3.Lean on the experts, support from Navy Public Affairs Support Elements, DMA 
detachments or broadcast detachments available on a not-to interfere with 
operational requirements basis.

4.Commands should submit videos by electronic means, express shipment or 
fastest method available to the CHINFO (OI-2).  Submissions must be received 
before 7 December 2020.  Late submissions will not be accepted.  Please 
consider very long shipping times (force protection screening at the pentagon 
can take five days for any shipment) for overseas and deployed units:
a.Send via mail to:
U.S. NAVY OFFICE OF INFORMATION ATTN:  LCDR CLINTON PHILLIPS 1200 NAVY 
PENTAGON, RM 4B463 WASHINGTON, DC, 20350-1200.
b.Submit videos electronically to video(AT)imagery.navy.mil, a shared google 
drive, or via CAC enabled platforms such as DOD safe (Secure Access File
Exchange) service.
c.Do not post submissions to DVIDS. Videos on DVIDS are public on upload.  
Please be aware that this will violate the rules (refer to 2b).
d.Email POC or navymedia(AT)navy.mil with subject line Army-Navy Submission 
for any questions related to file transfer information and assistance.

5.Request widest possible dissemination of this message.  Lets highlight Navy 
teamwork and the spirit of our Sailors and Marines forward deployed around 
the world.  Go Navy, Beat Army!

6.Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//


