UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 132050Z OCT 21 MID600051034536U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 225/21 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/OCT// 
 
SUBJ/COVID-19 CONSOLIDATED DISPOSITION AUTHORITY (CCDA)// 
 
REF/A/DOC/SD/24AUG21/ 
REF/B/MSG/SECNAV/302126ZAUG21/ 
REF/C/MSG/CNO/311913ZAUG21/ 
REF/D/DOC/BUMED/7OCT13// 
REF/E/DOC/BUPERS/16MAR20// 
REF/F/DOC/OPNAV/15AUG20// 
NARR/REF A IS THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMO MANDATING CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 
2019 VACCINATION FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SERVICE MEMBERS. 
REF B IS ALNAV 062/21, 2021-2022 DEPARTMENT OF NAVY MANDATORY COVID-19 
VACCINATION POLICY. 
REF C IS NAVADMIN 190/21, 2021-2022 NAVY MANDATORY COVID-19 VACCINATION AND 
REPORTING POLICY. 
REF D IS BUMEDINST 6230.15B, IMMUNIZATIONS AND CHEMOPROPHYLAXIS FOR THE 
PREVENTION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE. 
REF E IS BUPERSINST 1730.11A, STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE 
ACCOMMODATION OF RELIGIOUS PRACTICES. 
REF F IS MILPERSMAN 1730-020, IMMUNIZATION EXEMPTIONS FOR RELIGIOUS 
BELIEFS.// 
POC/OPNAV/CAPT STEVEN TARR III, (703) 614-9250//EMAIL: 
STEVEN.TARR1.MIL(AT)US.NAVY.MIL 
 
RMKS/1. Purpose.  This NAVADMIN announces the assignment of the Chief of 
Naval Personnel as the COVID Consolidated Disposition Authority (CCDA), and 
provides procedural guidance and reporting requirements for administrative 
disposition of individual Navy service members, active duty and Selected 
Reserve, who are not fully vaccinated per references (a) through (c). 
 
2.  Policy.  In order to maximize readiness, it is the policy goal of the 
U.S. Navy to achieve a fully vaccinated force against the persistent and 
lethal threat of COVID-19. 
2.a.  In support of the above stated policy, and as directed by the Secretary 
of the Navys lawful order, the Navy has commenced a mandatory vaccination 
campaign per references (a) through (c). Navy service members refusing the 
COVID-19 vaccination, absent a pending or approved exemption, shall be 
processed for administrative separation per this NAVADMIN and supporting 
references. To ensure a fair and consistent process, separation 
determinations will be centralized under the CCDA as outlined in the 
paragraphs below. 
2.b. To date, over 98 percent of active duty U.S. Navy service members have 
met their readiness responsibility by completing or initiating a COVID-19 
vaccination series.  We applaud your commitment to ensuring the continued 
readiness of our worldwide deployable Navy.  Tragically, there have been 164 
deaths within the Navy family due to COVID-19, far exceeding the combined 
total of all other health or mishap related injuries and deaths over the same 
time period.  144 of these were not immunized and 20 had an undisclosed 
immunization status. 
 
3.  Definitions.  For the purposes of this NAVADMIN, the following terms are 
defined. 
3.a.  Navy Service Members.  Active-duty service members and service members 
in the Selected Reserve only.  Service members in the Individual Ready 
Reserve and U.S. Naval Academy and Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps 
midshipmen remain subject to the vaccine mandates in references (a) and (b), 
but will be adjudicated per their governing instructions rather than this 
NAVADMIN. 
3.b.  Active-Duty Navy Service Members.  Active-duty Navy service members 
includes members of the Active Component and members of the Reserve Component 
on active duty in full time support (FTS). 
3.c.  Refusing the Vaccine.  A Navy service member refusing the vaccine is 
one who has: (1) received a lawful order to be fully vaccinated against 
COVID-19; (2) is not or will not be fully vaccinated on the date required by 
the order; and (3) does not have a pending or approved exemption request per 
references (d) through (f). 
3.d.  Fully Vaccinated.  Service members are considered fully vaccinated two 
weeks after completing an approved COVID-19 vaccination series per reference 
(c). 
3.e.  Senior Leader.  A Navy senior leader is a flag officer or flag officer 
select, regardless of assignment; an officer serving as a commander, deputy 
commander, commanding officer, executive officer, chief of staff, chief staff 
officer, or officer in charge; or an enlisted member serving as a command 
master chief, chief of the boat, senior enlisted advisor, or command senior 
enlisted leader. 
 
4.  Deadlines.  Per references (a) through (c), active duty Navy service 
members must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 NLT 28 November 2021, and 
Ready Reserve Navy service members NLT 28 December 2021.  New accessions must 
be vaccinated as soon as practicable following service entry. 
4.a. For requested exemptions that are denied, specific instructions 
regarding the follow-on vaccination timeline or separation adjudication 
process will be included in the denial letter. 
4.b. Administrative actions per this NAVADMIN may begin as soon as a Navy 
service member meets the definition of refusing the vaccine in paragraph 3.c. 
 
5.  Disposition Authority 
5.a.  Designation of the CCDA.  The Chief of Naval Personnel (CNP) is the 
CCDA.  The Chief of Navy Reserve (CNR) will provide support to the CCDA for 
cases involving Navy service members in the Selected Reserve. 
5.b.  Authorities for Vaccination Refusal.  The CCDA is the officer show 
cause authority and enlisted separation authority for Navy service members 
who refuse the COVID-19 vaccine, except Entry Level Separation (ELS).  For 
ELS, commanders and commanding officers are separation authorities per 
paragraph 6.b.  Commanders and commanding officers will initiate 
administrative separation processing per paragraphs 
7.a. and 7.b.  The Vice Chief of Naval Operations retains authority for non-
judicial punishment and courts-martial. Involuntary extension of enlistments 
is not authorized on the basis of administrative or disciplinary action for 
vaccination refusal.  The CCDA may seek recoupment of applicable bonuses, 
special and incentive pays, and the cost of training and education for 
service members refusing the vaccine. 
5.c.  Other Misconduct.  The withholding of disposition authority in 
reference (c) and this NAVADMIN does not extend to other misconduct, which 
may include misconduct related to vaccine refusal such as failing to wear a 
mask when required, falsifying vaccination records, or not complying with 
COVID testing requirements.  If in doubt, commanders, commanding officers, 
and officers in charge should consult with their servicing staff judge 
advocate in determining disposition authority. 
5.d.  Separation Authority for Vaccine Refusal That Includes Other 
Misconduct.  If a Navy service member is processed for administrative 
separation because of vaccine refusal that includes other misconduct, the 
CCDA will serve as the officer show cause authority or enlisted separation 
authority in accordance with paragraph 5.b. 
5.e.  Professional Qualifications.  For Navy service members refusing the 
vaccine, the CCDA retains the authority for administrative processes 
regarding removal of warfare qualifications, additional qualification 
designations (AQD), Navy Enlisted Classifications (NEC), or sub-specialties, 
except in cases where removal authority is otherwise authorized by law or 
Executive Order (e.g. Director, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program regarding 
nuclear qualifications). 
5.f.  Other Armed Forces Members Assigned to Navy Commands.  For vaccine 
refusal cases involving Soldiers, Airmen, Guardians, Marines, or Coast 
Guardsmen assigned to Navy commands, the Navy commander, commanding officer, 
or officer-in-charge will report the case to the CCDA. 
5.g.  Navy Service Members in Non-Navy Billets.  The CCDA will be responsible 
for identifying, coordinating, and adjudicating Navy service members refusing 
the vaccine while serving in non-Navy billets (e.g., Joint, NATO). 
 
6.  Administrative Disposition Guidance; Immediate Actions. 
6.a. Unvaccinated Senior Leaders.  An unvaccinated senior leader without a 
pending or approved exemption calls into question the Navy’s trust and 
confidence regarding their ability to ensure unit readiness or to maintain 
good order and discipline.  These senior leaders must begin vaccination 
immediately.  This constitutes a lawful order.  The immediate superior in 
command (ISIC), commander, or commanding officer, as applicable, will notify 
in writing senior leaders refusing the vaccine that they have five (5) 
calendar days to initiate corrective action.  If the senior leader does not 
begin a vaccination series or request an exemption within that five-day 
period, the ISIC, commander, or commanding officer will relieve the senior 
leader and initiate detachment for cause (DFC) per MILPERSMAN 1611-010, 
MILPERSMAN 1611-020, and MILPERSMAN 1616-010, as applicable. 
6.a.(1).  A sample report of misconduct is available at: 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-covid-19-reporting.  The report will note 
that authority for disciplinary action is withheld by reference (c) and this 
NAVADMIN, and as such no disciplinary action was taken. 
6.a.(2).  Established notification procedures for relief of command triad 
members apply.  The relief of any flag officer or officer selected for 
promotion to O-7 under this paragraph will be reported to the Naval Inspector 
General for review per DoDI 1320.04 and SECNAVINST 5800.12C. 
6.b.  Entry Level Separation (ELS).  ELS processing is authorized per 
paragraph 5.b above per MILPERSMAN 1910-154 for Navy service members in an 
entry level status refusing the vaccine.  ELS shall be reported per paragraph 
9. 
6.c.  Because COVID-19 vaccination is now mandatory, commanders, commanding 
officers, or officers in charge, with the concurrence of the first flag 
officer in the chain of command, are authorized to temporarily reassign Navy 
service members who refuse the COVID-19 vaccine, regardless of exemption 
status, based on operational readiness or mission requirements. 
6.d.  Promotion, Transfer and Reenlistment.  Commands shall not allow those 
refusing the vaccine to promote/advance, reenlist, or execute orders, with 
the exception of separation orders, until the CCDA has completed disposition 
of their case.  Transfer orders may be cancelled by Navy Personnel Command. 
 
7.  Administrative Disposition Guidance; Future Actions.  The actions in this 
paragraph shall be executed per paragraph 4. 
7.a.  Officer Administrative Separation.  In the case of any officer, 
including any officer senior leader, who is refusing the vaccine, the 
cognizant commander or commanding officer shall submit a report of misconduct 
to Commander, Navy Personnel Command (PERS-834) per MILPERSMAN 1611-010.  A 
template report is available at: https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-covid-
19-reporting. 
Per SECNAVINST 1920.6D, the CCDA, as the show cause authority, has directed 
mandatory show cause processing for all officers on the bases of Misconduct, 
Moral or Professional Dereliction, and Substandard Performance, with the 
least favorable characterization of service as GENERAL (under honorable 
conditions), unless inclusion of another basis for separation warrants other 
than honorable.  Additionally, report flag officers or officers selected for 
promotion to O-7 who are refusing the vaccine to the Naval Inspector General 
for review per DoDI 1320.04 and SECNAVINST 5800.12C.  Officers separated 
under this subparagraph will not be eligible for involuntary separation pay 
and will be subject to recoupment of any unearned special or incentive pays. 
7.b.  Enlisted Administrative Separation.  In the case of any enlisted 
service member, including any enlisted senior leader, who is refusing the 
vaccine, the cognizant commander or commanding officer shall initiate the 
process for administrative separation under MILPERSMAN 1910-142, Commission 
of a Serious Offense, plus any additional basis known at the time of 
processing. The provisions of MILPERSMAN 1910 (series) apply; treat vaccine 
refusal cases as though they were listed in MILPERSMAN 1910-233. The CCDA is 
the separation authority unless a higher separation authority is required by 
MILPERSMAN 1910-704.  The least favorable characterization of service shall 
be GENERAL (under honorable conditions), unless inclusion of another basis 
for separation warrants other than honorable.  Enlisted service members 
separated under this subparagraph will not be eligible for involuntary 
separation pay and will be subject to recoupment of any unearned special or 
incentive pays. 
7.c.  Officer Promotion Delay.  Per SECNAVINST 1420.3 or SECNAVINST 1412.6M, 
commanders and commanding officers shall delay the promotion of any officer 
refusing the vaccine. Delays shall be based upon pending administrative 
action and physical qualification.  PERS-833 will make formal written notice 
to the officer following written notice by the commanding officer. 
7.d.  Enlisted Advancement Withhold.  Per BUPERSINST 1430.16G, commanding 
officers shall withhold the advancement of any enlisted member refusing the 
vaccine.  Advancement withholds shall be based upon pending administrative 
action and physical qualification. 
7.e.  Documentation in Fitness Reports and Enlisted Evaluations. 
Per MILPERSMAN 1610-015, failure to comply with individual medical readiness 
responsibilities will be documented in fitness reports and 
evaluations.  Failure to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 is a medical 
readiness failure. 
7.e.(1).  Commanding officers shall identify those refusing the vaccine and 
verify that the members have an initial counseling NAVPERS 1070/13 per 
MILPERSMAN 1610-015 in their local file (Page 13).  If necessary, the initial 
NAVPERS 1070/13 directed in MILPERSMAN 1610-015 shall be issued. 
The NAVPERS 1070/13 counseling and warning ordering vaccination per NAVADMIN 
190/21 may serve as the subsequent formal counseling required in MILPERSMAN 
1610-015. 
7.e.(2).  Within 30 days of a Navy service member refusing the vaccine, 
reporting seniors shall issue a Special Fitness Report/Evaluation per 
MILPERSMAN 1610-015 and BUPERSINST 1610.10E.  In addition to documenting 
failure to comply with individual medical readiness responsibilities, the 
report shall document other facts as appropriate, including any misconduct 
related to UCMJ Art. 92. 
7.f.   Terminal Leave.  Navy service members who commence terminal leave on 
or before the applicable deadline in paragraph 4 are administratively 
exempted from vaccine requirements per BUMEDNOTE 6150 of 21 Sep 21 and 
BUMEDINST 6230.15B. 
7.g.  The authority for commanding officers in MILPERSMAN 1730-020 to revoke 
an approved religious accommodation exemption from COVID-19 vaccination is 
withheld. 
 
8.  Reporting 
8.a.  Officers and E-6 through E-9.  Per MILPERSMAN 1611-010 and MILPERSMAN 
1616-040, commands are required to inform PERS-834 (officers) and PERS-832 
(enlisted) of incidents that could result in adverse action.  This applies to 
vaccine refusal.  Reports should flag whether the service member is pending 
transfer or promotion/advancement. 
8.b.  E-5 and Below.  Per MILPERSMAN 1616-050, misconduct not yet finally 
adjudicated need not be reported to Navy Personnel Command. 
 
9.  Data Collection and Record Retention 
9.a.  Navy echelon one and two commanders will forward information regarding 
those refusing the vaccine within their administrative chains of command to 
CNP for active duty Navy service members and CNR for Ready Reserve service 
members per CCDA guidance. 
9.b.  All commands must retain all records, materials and 
written communications, including emails, pertaining to 
vaccine refusals per SECNAV M-5210.1. 
 
10.  Points of contact.  OPNAV POC:  CAPT Steven Tarr III, comm (703) 614-
9250, e-mail:  steven.tarr1.mil(at)us.navy.mil. BUMED POC:  BUMED COVID-19 
CRISIS ACTION TEAM / (703) 681-1125 /e-mail: USN.NCR.BUMEDFCHVA.MBX.BUMED--- 
2019-NCOV-RESPONSE-CELL(AT)MAIL.MIL OJAG POC:  CDR Justin Pilling, comm (703) 
614-5757, e-mail: justin.d.pilling@navy.mil. 
 
11.  Released by ADM William Lescher, Vice Chief of Naval Operations, and 
VADM John B. Nowell, Jr., Chief of Naval Personnel.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
