ROUTINE 
R 091429Z JUN 22 MID600051960066U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 133/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N7/JUN// 
 
SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2023-2024 STRATEGIST AND NATIONAL SECURITY FELLOWSHIPS AND 
GRADUATE EDUCATION SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS CALL FOR APPLICATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/22JUN10// 
REF/B/DOC/SECDEF WASHINGTON DC/30NOV16// 
REF/C/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/14APR22/NOTAL// 
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/141554ZJAN15// 
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/APR22// 
REF/F/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/08JAN15// 
REF/G/DOC/DEPSECDEF WASHINGTON DC/24JAN19// 
REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/081821ZOCT21// 
REF/I/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/17JAN20// 
 
NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowships, 
Graduate Education Programs, and Community Sponsorship. 
Ref B is DODINST 1322.23, Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF). 
Ref C is Memorandum for the Record: Federal Executive Host Institutions for 
Academic Years 2023-2024 and 2024-2025. 
Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, Establishment of the Naval Strategy Subspecialty 
2300X. 
Ref E is NAVPERS 15839I, Manual of Navy Officer Manpower and Personnel 
Classifications, Vol I, dtd April 2022. 
Ref F is OPNAVINST 1520.24D, Officer Scholarship Program. 
Ref G is Office of the Deputy Secretary of Defense Directive-type Memorandum 
(DTM)-19-001, Establishment of the Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers 
Program. 
Ref H is NAVADMIN 223/21, Update to Senior Officer Graduate Education 
Requirements. 
Ref I is OPNAVINST 1520.23C CH-3, Graduate Education// 
 
RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN is the call for applications for the Academic Year (AY) 
2023-2024 strategist and national security fellowships and civilian graduate 
education scholarship programs, and for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 Olmsted 
Scholar Program. 
 
2. Per reference (a), these programs are a primary means for developing naval 
strategists through exposure and learning opportunities at leading think 
tanks, academic institutions, and with industry partners. 
   a. Talented officers who complete these programs form a cadre of naval 
   strategists able to leverage their experiences and the key relationships 
they have established to actively contribute toward efforts to improve Navy 
   warfighting advantage. 
   b. Type Commanders and community managers are encouraged to identify 
quality candidates and encourage these future leaders to apply to these 
competitive programs. 
   c. Applicable programs include: 
      (1) Federal Executive Fellowship Program (FEF) 
      (2) Hudson Fellow Program, Oxford University 
      (3) Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows Program (SDEF) 
      (4) Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program (SD STP) 
      (5) Politico-Military Masters Program (PMM) 
      (6) Arthur S. Moreau Program (ASM) 
      (7) Olmsted Scholar Program. 
 
3. AY2023-24 applications are due to Navy Personnel Command NLT 02 September 
2022.  All supplemental information to the selection board must be received 
NLT 23 September 2022.  The selection board will convene in early November 
2022. 
Results will be announced no later than December 2022. 
   a. Officers may apply for all programs for which they meet the eligibility 
   requirements via a single application. Annotate which programs you are 
applying for in the subject line of your application. 
   b. Please read program descriptions in their entirety. Unique or 
additional application and selection requirements are set forth in 
subparagraph 'b' of each section. 
   c. Applications require a personal statement to the board, a curriculum 
   vitae, biography, and endorsement letters from both your commanding 
officer and detailer, plus any unique or additional requirements specified 
for each program. Application forms will be available after 01 June 
2022.  Send requests for forms and any questions to the OPNAV N712 or PERS 
443 POCs listed in this NAVADMIN. 
   d. Service obligation is defined in individual program descriptions below. 
   Most of these programs incur a service obligation of three times (3x) the 
   number of months served in the program (normally 10-12 months), for a  
30-36  month obligation. 
   e. Interested officers should submit applications for all programs via 
   encrypted email to the PERS 443 and OPNAV N712 POCs listed in this 
NAVADMIN. 
   Prior to submission, ensure electronic copies are clear, legible, and 
properly endorsed. If encrypted email is unavailable, mail applications to: 
 
      Navy Personnel Command 
      Attn: PERS 443B 
      5720 Integrity Drive 
      Millington, TN  38005 
   f. Additional information on graduate education and fellowship programs 
can be found in the program descriptions below and 
at https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Education/. 
 
4. Federal Executive Fellowship Program: This is a fellowship program and 
does not confer a degree.  The FEF program provides selected due-course 
officers an opportunity to improve their understanding of the national 
security decision-making process through a one-year assignment at a world-
class research organization or academic institution. Fellows will serve 
follow-on tours in a number of critical strategy, policy, national security 
decision-making, and international engagement billets on major Joint and Navy 
staffs. A successful FEF tour combined with any previous or future non-
resident masters degree from an accredited university will satisfy the in-
residence graduate education requirement for major command (see reference 
(h)). 
   a. Eligibility: Active Duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line (URL) and Restricted 
Line (RL) officers in designators 1710, 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840 are 
eligible to apply. Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) officers 
are not eligible for the FEF program. Applicants should have a graduate 
degree. A graduate degree in national security affairs, international 
relations, strategy, or related discipline is preferred. 
   b. Program information: Thirteen (13) officers will be selected for the 
AY23-24 Federal Executive Fellowship program by the PERS selection board. The 
   fellowships will begin in August 2023 following a two-week orientation 
course at the Pentagon. One naval officer will be assigned to each of the 
thirteen FEF institutions, which include: 
      (1) Atlantic Council, Washington, DC 
      (2) Carnegie Mellon University, Institute for Politics and Strategy, 
      Pittsburgh, PA 
      (3) Center for a New American Security (CNAS), Washington, DC 
      (4) Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Washington, 
      DC.  The CSIS fellow will also serve as an adjunct fellow at the United 
States Naval Institute (USNI), Annapolis, MD. 
      (5) Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Chicago, IL 
      (6) Georgia Institute of Technology, Sam Nunn School of International 
      Affairs, Atlanta, GA 
      (7) Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government, 
Cambridge, MA 
      (8) Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA), Alexandria, VA 
      (9) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Security Studies Program, 
      Cambridge, MA 
      (10) Stanford University, Hoover Institution, Stanford, CA 
      (11) Stimson Center, Washington, DC 
      (12) Tufts University, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Medford, 
MA 
      (13) University of Texas at Austin, Clements Center for National 
Security, Austin, TX 
   c. Reutilization/service obligation: Federal Executive Fellows incur a 
   service obligation three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship. FEF tours are normally 10-12 months. URL FEFs will serve at least 
one utilization tour in a validated naval strategist billet on a major Navy, 
Joint, or OSD staff as soon as possible, but not later than the second 
subsequent shore tour. 
   Some officers may serve in multiple strategy positions after the 
fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis 
with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: URL officers who 
complete a FEF tour will receive the 2300S Naval Strategy subspecialty code 
and the 24C additional qualification designation (AQD) code. IWC Officers 
will receive the 2400S subspecialty code and the 24C AQD code. FAO officers 
will receive the 2000S National Security Studies subspecialty code and the 
24C AQD code. 
 
5. Hudson Fellow Program, University of Oxford: This is a fellowship program 
and does not confer a degree. Hosted by St. Antonys College, the Hudson 
Fellow will attend the Changing Character of War (CCW) program, led by the 
History Faculty at Oxford. CCW brings together representatives of the United 
Kingdom Armed Forces, Government, and multi-national organizations to provide 
practical knowledge in the interdisciplinary study of war and armed conflict. 
A successful Hudson tour combined with any previous or future non-resident 
masters degree from an accredited university will satisfy the in-residence 
graduate education requirement for major command (see reference (h)). 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O5-O6 URL and RL officers in designators 1710, 
   1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840 are eligible to apply. The University of Oxford 
   prefers post-command officers. TAR officers are not eligible for the 
Hudson Fellowship. Applicant must have a masters degree. A graduate degree in 
national security affairs, international relations, strategy, or related 
discipline is preferred. 
    b. Program information: The Hudson Fellowship will begin in August 
    2023.  One (1) primary and two (2) alternate nominees will be selected by 
the PERS selection board. Their names, CV, biography, and research proposal 
will be submitted by OPNAV N7 to the University of Oxford for final selection 
of the one (1) fellow for AY23-24. Applicants for the Hudson Fellowship must 
include a 2-page research proposal with their application. The Oxford 
research proposal template can be found at the MyNavyHR website under 
Education Placement: https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Detailing/Officer/Education-Placement/. 
   c. Reutilization/Service obligation: Hudson fellows incur a service 
   obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship. 
   Hudson Fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months. The URL Hudson Fellow 
will serve at least one utilization tour in a validated naval strategist 
billet as soon as possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore 
tour. Some officers may serve in multiple strategy positions after the 
fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis 
with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: URL officers who 
complete the Hudson Fellowship will receive the 2300S subspecialty code and 
the 24D AQD code. IWC officers will receive the 2400S subspecialty code and 
the 24D AQD code. FAO officers will receive the 2000S subspecialty code and 
the 24D AQD code. 
 
6. Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows Program: This is a fellowship 
program and does not confer a degree. This program provides a venue for 
exceptional officers to experience innovative business practices within the 
nation’s leading business enterprises. Military fellows from each of the 
Services are paired with senior executives in various companies known for 
their willingness to challenge and adapt their business practices. A 
successful SDEF tour combined with any previous or future non-resident 
masters degree from an accredited university will satisfy the in-residence 
graduate education requirement for major command (see reference (h)). 
   a. Eligibility: All O5-O6 officers are eligible for the SDEF program, 
   including Reserve, TAR, and the Acquisition Professional Community. 
Related graduate education and staff experience preferred. Per reference (b), 
   applicants must have completed Joint Professional Military Education Phase 
II (JPME II) (or Advanced Joint Professional Military Education (AJPME) for 
   Reserve officers) prior to beginning the fellowship. This JPME requirement 
is waived for eligible military officers who have a scientific, technical, or 
   professional military occupational specialty or equivalency, as described 
in Section 10 of DoD Instruction 1300.19. 
   b. Program information: Four (4) Navy officers will be selected for the 
AY23-24 program by the PERS selection board. Fellowships will begin in July 
2023. 
   Past fellows were assigned to corporations such as 3M, Apple, Amazon, 
Boeing, Caterpillar, Cisco Systems, Exxon Mobil, J.P. Morgan Chase, FedEx, 
General Dynamics, Google, Intel, Lockheed Martin, Merck, Microsoft, Morgan 
Stanley, SalesForce, and SpaceX. 
   c. Reutilization/Service obligation: SDEF graduates incur a service 
   obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship. 
   SDEF tours are normally 12 months in length, depending on the required 
   detachment for the next duty station. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: All officers who 
complete the SDEF program will receive the 2000S subspecialty code and the 
24F AQD code. 
 
7. Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program: This program confers a 
Masters degree in International Public Policy (MIPP). The SD STP program is a 
one-year masters program at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced 
International Studies (JHU SAIS) campus in Washington, D.C., where students 
will develop advanced analytical and strategic thinking skills. The SD STP 
program satisfies the in-residence graduate education requirement for major 
command (see reference (h)). Additional program information and instructions 
to sign up for education program notifications are available at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-qualifications/e-graduate-
education-and-fellowship-programs. 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line (URL) and IWC (1810, 
   1820, 1830, 1840) officers are eligible. TAR officers are not eligible. 
Per reference (g), completion of JPME I and graduation in the top 20 percent 
of their JPME class is required. A minimum of ten years of service is 
required. 
   Officers who have already participated in Department of Defense-funded 
graduate education programs are not eligible. Those officers who earned a 
degree through the Tuition Assistance Program or a Service or Joint War 
College retain their eligibility for SD STP and do not need a waiver (see 
reference (i)). 
   b. Program information: Two (2) primary and two (2) alternate nominees 
will be selected by the PERS selection board. OSD will make the final 
selection of two (2) Navy scholars for the SD STP program. SD STP selectees 
will carry a full academic load during the academic year. Additional 
information can be found at https://www.sais.jhu.edu/admissions/masters-
program-admissions/how-apply/us-military-and-veteran-applicants/strategic. 
GRE scores must be submitted as part of the application package. 
   c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: SD STP graduates will incur a service 
   obligation of a minimum of 24 months following completion of the SD STP 
   program. Upon graduation, SD STP students will be considered for follow-on 
   assignments that utilize their special knowledge and skills gained through 
the completion of the program. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: SD STP URL graduates 
will earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 223 AQD code. SD 
STP IWC graduates will earn the 2400P subspecialty code and the 223 AQD code. 
 
8. Politico-Military Masters Program: This program confers a masters degree. 
The PMM program provides officers a graduate education in strategy and 
politico-military affairs at leading civilian universities. The PMM program 
is a key component of the Navy Strategic Enterprise, educating naval 
strategists who will be utilized in subsequent strategy and policy-related 
billets. The PMM program satisfies the in-residence graduate education 
requirement for major command (see reference (h)). 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O3-O5 Unrestricted Line (URL) and Restricted 
Line (RL) 1710, 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840 designated officers are eligible. 
This includes O2s selected for O3 and who will be promoted prior to the start 
of the academic year (July-August 2023). Preference will be given to junior 
officers (O3-O4). TAR officers are not eligible. Officers who have already 
participated in a Department of Defense-funded graduate education program are 
not eligible. 
   Those officers who earned a degree through the Tuition Assistance Program 
or Service or a Joint War College retain their eligibility for PMM and do not 
need a waiver (see reference (i)). 
   b. Program information: Eight (8) officers will be selected for the one-
year PMM program. Selected officers will carry a full academic load during 
the academic year. The approved AY23-24 institutions and their associated 
degree programs are listed below. Other universities that meet the Naval 
Strategy subspecialty (2300P) Educational Skills Requirements (ESRs) for PMM 
will be considered on a case-by-case basis by OPNAV N7. GRE scores must be 
submitted as part of the application package. 
      (1) Harvard University, Boston, MA: Mid-Career Master in Public 
      Administration, John F. Kennedy School of Government. 
      (2) Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC: Master of International 
      Public Policy, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies. 
      (3) Princeton University, Princeton, NJ: Master in Public Policy (MPP) 
- International Relations, Princeton School of Public and International 
Affairs. 
      (4) Tufts University, Medford, MA: Master of Arts in the Mid-Career 
      Program at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. 
      (5) University of California, San Diego (UCSD), San Diego, CA: Master 
of Advanced Studies in International Affairs (MAS-IA), School of Global 
Policy and Strategy. 
      (6) University of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Master of Arts in International 
      Relations at the Committee on International Relations. 
      (7) University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA: Master of Arts in 
      Politics (International Relations) in the Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics. 
      (8) University of Washington, Seattle, WA: Master of Arts in 
International Studies, Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies. 
   c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: PMM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program, up to 36 months total. URL PMM graduates will serve at least one 
tour in a validated strategy subspecialty billet in either politico-military 
affairs or strategy and policy, subject to career timing and on a not-to-
interfere basis with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: PMM URL graduates will 
   earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty and the 24A AQD codes. The 
Education Plan (EP) for URL PMM students must be in full compliance with the 
2300P ESRs. 
   Restricted Line (FAO) PMM graduates will earn the 2000P National Security 
   Studies subspecialty code and the 24A AQD code. IWC PMM graduates will 
earn the 2400P subspecialty code and the 24A AQD code. The EP for FAOs must 
be in compliance with the 2000P ESRs and developed in coordination with the 
FAO detailer. The EP for IWC officers must be in compliance with the 2400P 
ESRs. 
 
9. Arthur S. Moreau Program (ASM): This program leads to a degree (PhD). The 
ASM program is a two-year program for candidates seeking to complete a PhD or 
to achieve an 'All But Dissertation' status in a politico-military related 
field. 
The ASM program satisfies the in-residence graduate education requirement for 
major command (see reference (h)). 
   a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O5, URL-only are eligible. This includes 
O3s selected for O4 and who will be promoted prior to the start of the 
academic year (July-August 2023). TAR officers are not eligible. ASM 
candidates must already possess a masters degree in a politico-military 
related field such as national security affairs, international relations, 
strategy, or related discipline. 
   b. Program Information: One (1) officer may be selected for the ASM 
program. 
   The selected officer in the ASM program will carry a full academic load 
during the academic year. The approved ASM AY23-24 institutions are the same 
as listed with the approved PMM universities in para 7.b. Other universities 
that meet the Naval Strategy subspecialty (2300P) Educational Skills 
Requirements (ESRs) for PMM and ASM will be considered on a case-by-case 
basis by OPNAV N7. GRE scores must be submitted as part of the application 
package. 
   c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: ASM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the education 
program, up to 72 months total. ASM graduates will serve at least one tour in 
a validated strategy subspecialty billet in either politico-military affairs 
or strategy and policy, subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere 
basis with their command or milestone tours. 
   d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: ASM graduates will 
earn either the 2300P or the 2300D Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 
24B AQD code. The Education Plan (EP) for ASM officers must be in full 
compliance with the 2300P ESRs. 
 
10. Olmsted Scholars: This program may confer a masters degree, and could 
satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement for major command 
(see reference (h)). The Olmsted Scholar Program offers outstanding young 
military leaders an unsurpassed opportunity to achieve fluency in a foreign 
language, pursue graduate study at an overseas university and acquire an in-
depth understanding of foreign cultures, thereby equipping them to serve in 
positions of greater responsibility as senior leaders. This unique 
scholarship opportunity supports the DoD emphasis on developing language 
skills and regional cultural knowledge across the force. 
    a. Eligibility: All active duty officers with the designators 1110, 1120, 
    1130, 1140, 1310, 1320, 1810, 1820, 1830, 1840, or 3100 with at least 
three years of Active Federal Commissioned Service (AFCS) and no more than 
13.5 years of total Active Federal Service (AFS) as of 1 April 2023 are 
eligible to apply. 
    The maximum length of service eligibility requirement has been extended 
for all eligible designators from 11 years to 13.5 years as part of a three-
year trial program. 
    b. Program Information: The Navy is seeking applicants who display the 
    warfighting and intellectual qualities of dedicated career officers who 
aspire to command. Applicants should be available to commence language 
training in summer/fall 2023 at the Defense Language Institute Foreign 
Language Center in Monterey, CA or Washington, DC, begin two years of study 
at a foreign university in 2024 and complete their studies in 2026. A 
detailer written/signed statement, as stated in enclosure (3) of reference 
(f), must be included in the nomination package. Olmsted notifications will 
occur in two phases. Navy nominees will be notified via email following the 
Navy selection board in November 2022. Scholars selected by the Olmsted 
Foundation Board of Directors will be contacted via email following the 
selection board in March 2023. 
    c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: Olmsted Scholars incur a service 
    obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the 
education program and will be calculated based on the number of months the 
officer is assigned overseas. 
    d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: Olmsted scholars will 
    earn the 219 AQD code and, if they complete a degree in national security 
    affairs (earning the 2XXXP subspecialty code), will be integrated into 
the Pol-Mil subspecialty community and may be eligible to fill billets coded 
with a 24X AQD code. 
    e. Additional Application Information: Applications for the FY24 Olmsted 
    program are separate and distinct from the application for the other 
programs covered by this NAVADMIN. These must include detailer endorsement 
and should be prepared according to enclosure (3) of reference (f) and 
submitted via email NLT 02 September 2022 to the Navy Olmsted Scholar Program 
Manager and PERS 443 POCs listed at the end of this NAVADMIN. DLAB and GRE 
scores must be submitted as part of the application package. Official college 
transcripts may be submitted via the institution to the Olmsted Scholar 
Program Manager, which must also be received no later than 02 September 2022. 
Detailed information on application requirements, sample application 
template, and Frequently Asked Questions are located on the Navy College 
website at https://www.navycollege.navy.mil/sailors/other-navy-programs.htm. 
 
11. Points of Contact: Contact the POCs listed below for program-specific 
details and questions. Direct all application-only questions to either OPNAV 
N712 or NAVPERSCOM. 
    a. OPNAV: CDR Anne C. Stehlin, OPNAV N712 Branch Head, 571-256-4784, 
    anne.c.stehlin.mil@us.navy.mil; Ms. Jennifer Rigdon Teter, N712 Contract 
    Support, 703-692-1934, jennifer.c.rigdonteter.ctr@us.navy.mil. 
    b. NAVPERSCOM: LT Jacob Jepsen, PERS 443, 901-874-3996, 
jacob.a.jepsen.mil@us.navy.mil. 
    c. OLMSTED: Ms. Elise McGuire, Navy Olmsted Scholar Program Manager, 850-
473-6064, elise.t.mcguire.civ@us.navy.mil. 
 
12. Released by VADM J. W. Hughes, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for 
Warfighting Development (N7). // 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//
