UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 121752Z MAY 21 MID200000848602U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 094/21

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAY//

SUBJ/FISCAL YEAR 2022 SEAMAN TO ADMIRAL-21 PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENT//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/14DEC09//
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/171350ZJUL17//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 1420.1B, ENLISTED TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS 
APPLICATION ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.  REF B IS NAVADMIN 177/17, NUCLEAR TRAINED 
SAILOR APPLICATIONS TO OFFICER COMMISSIONING PROGRAMS AND MODIFICATION TO FY-
19 NUCLEAR LIMITED DUTY OFFICER IN- SERVICE PROCUREMENT BOARD PROCESS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications and provides guidance for the 
fiscal year (FY) 2022 Seaman to Admiral-21 (STA-21) commissioning program.  
Due to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic impacting Scholastic 
Aptitude Test (SAT) and American College Testing (ACT) availability and 
physical fitness assessment (PFA) testing, an exception to policy is approved 
for both the SAT/ACT and PFA requirements.  Supplemental information for 
applicant submission is provided in subparagraphs 7.g and 7.h of this 
NAVADMIN.

2.  STA-21 is a full-time undergraduate education and commissioning program 
open to enlisted personnel of all paygrades and ratings who meet the 
eligibility requirements specified in reference (a).

3.  Deadline for submission of applications for the FY-22 STA-21 Program is 1 
July 2021.  Application packages must be postmarked on or before the deadline 
date.  It is recommended that applications be mailed prior to the deadline as 
early submission allows timely feedback to the Sailor for submission of 
missing or illegible documents.  Deadline for submission of additional 
documentation to an applicants package is 1 August 2021.  No additional 
documents can be submitted after this date.  The selection board is scheduled 
to convene in September 2021 and the selectees will be announced via 
NAVADMIN.

4.  The following target options and core are open for application for the 
FY-22 selection board:  Surface Warfare (SWO), Surface Warfare Engineering 
Duty (SWO/ED), Nuclear (Surface/Sub), Special Warfare, Explosive Ordnance 
Disposal, Naval Flight Officer, Pilot, Civil Engineering Corps, Nurse Corps 
and Information Professional.

5.  The following target options have zero select opportunity for FY-22:  
Human Resources, Intelligence, Information Warfare, Medical Corps, Supply 
Corps, Surface Warfare Officer/Information Professional (SWO/IP), 
Oceanography (OCEANO) and SWO/OCEANO.

6.  The Nuclear (Surface/Sub) target option is now open to Sailors who are 
serving in the Fleet and hold an active nuclear Navy enlisted classification 
(NEC) (N1XO, N1XS, N2XO, N2XS) and to those Sailors who are in the nuclear 
training pipeline with the N91T NEC.
Applicants holding a nuclear NEC must receive conditional release, in line 
with reference (b), if applying for an option outside the Nuclear community, 
from the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager (OPNAV N133D).  All applicants 
for STA-21 nuclear option (STA-21(N)) must be able to begin their first day 
of class in the first semester of their course work prior to commencing their 
eighth year of service.  See the STA-21(N) Program Authorization (PA 150A) 
dated May 2019 for more specific information and all other requirements to 
apply for the STA-21(N) program.  Additionally, supplementary information 
applicable to this years STA-21(N) application is as follows:
    a.  The Sailor/Marine American Council on Education Registry Transcript 
(SMART) per reference (a), enclosure (1), Chapter 8, paragraph 6.b(9) is not 
required to be submitted for this application.  A future revision of 
reference (a) will remove this requirement.
    b.  The applicants photograph per reference (a), enclosure (1), Chapter 
8, paragraph 6.b(10) is not required to be submitted for this application.  A 
future revision of reference (a), will remove this requirement.

7.  The following information addresses lessons learned from the FY-
21 STA-21 selection process and board.  This information is provided to 
preclude common errors:
    a.  Of the 339 applications received for FY-21, only 318 were board 
eligible.  A total of 55 were selected to participate in the
FY-21 STA-21 Program.
    b.  Each year, packages are not considered due to non-qualifying SAT/ACT 
scores, missing CO endorsement/recommendation, recent non- judicial 
punishment, missing or illegible submission of documents, and not meeting 
program age or PFA requirements.  For FY-22, a new non-qualifying basis would 
be not meeting authorized exception to policy criteria for SAT/ACT and PFA.
    c.  Minimum eligibility requirements must be met before submitting an 
application.  Applications should be mailed only when fully completed.  
Officer interview boards shall consist of three officers, the applicants CO 
may not be a board member and should not submit an interview appraisal sheet, 
the COs personal interview should be conducted only after the application is 
complete and the officer interview board has submitted their appraisals.  The 
full picture of an applicants academic and officer potential can only be 
determined by reviewing the SAT/ACT scores (if available), high 
school/college transcripts, and a completed application package.
    d.  The COs endorsement is extremely important, especially the ranking of 
the individual among his/her peers.  The endorsement should contain specifics 
about the individuals academic potential, commitment, leadership, service 
above self and potential as a naval officer.  CO comments should specify the 
primary option to which the individual is applying and address how the 
individual meets qualifications for that option.  For junior Sailors with 
only schoolhouse evaluations, the CO must address this issue in his/her 
endorsement.
    e.  An interview board and nomination review board shall be conducted in 
line with reference (a).  It is recommended that officers of the applicants 
designator of choice, if available, be asked to participate in the 
interview/nomination review board to assess the applicant for their 
community.  Officer appraisals provide important insight on the applicant.  
The appraisal from the board should be a frank and honest assessment of the 
applicants leadership and academic potential.  Appraisal forms should be 
typed in 10 or 12 point font.
    f.  The applicants personal statement should address why the Sailor wants 
to become an officer, how the Sailors selection would improve the Navy, and 
why the Sailor is applying for a specific option.  Sailors must also address 
any hardships or unique experiences that shaped their character.  Junior 
Sailors should provide information on high school experiences as high school 
transcripts rarely provide in-depth information on involvement in sports, 
clubs, volunteer hours, work, etc.  Additionally, applicants should address 
any anomalies in the package (e.g., poor high school grades, college grades, 
or service school grades, poor evaluation performance).  The explanation 
should include details of the situation, how the applicant has overcome these 
issues, and why the applicant will be successful in the future.
    g.  The application is a reflection of the applicant.
Applicants must review their packages in their entirety before submitting.  
Check for misspelled words and improper grammar.
Ensure all transcripts (high school and all colleges) are enclosed.
In an effort to minimize risk from COVID-19 exposure, the PFA requirements 
for Cycle 1 2020, Cycle 2 2020 and Cycle 1 2021 have been waived.  For 
applicants who have not taken the PFA within the past year, the COs 
endorsement must include a statement verifying the applicant is currently 
within height and weight standards.
    h.  Qualifying SAT/ACT scores are required, however due to recent events, 
applications can still be submitted either pending receipt of SAT/ACT scores 
or with a command statement indicating non-availability.  SAT/ACT scores can 
be from exams taken between 1 July 2018 and 1 July 2021 (3 years), should the 
Service Member have a later opportunity to complete the exam.  If the 
applicant is unable to complete the SAT/ACT exam, applicants may still submit 
an application with a command letter indicating non-availability of SAT/ACT 
exam opportunity.  Applicants without a SAT/ACT score should ensure their 
high school cumulative grade point average (GPA) is within the last 5 years 
OR cumulative college GPA with more than 12 semester hours and a minimum of a 
2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale.
    i.  It is recommended that the command retain a copy of the entire 
application package.  The command portion of the application should not be 
given to the applicant.

8.  Mail completed applications to:
    Commander
    Naval Service Training Command (N92/STA 21)
    2601A Paul Jones St
    Great Lakes IL 60088-2845

9.  For questions, specific details, eligibility criteria, application 
requirements, and selection procedures, refer to reference (a), contact your 
command career counselor, or visit the MyNavy Portal at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/career-planning and selecting the 
Commissioning Programs link for the most up-to-date STA-21 information.

10.  Point of contact is Naval Service Training Command, STA-21 Program 
Office, at (847) 688-4607 ext 124 DSN 792 or via e-mail at 
pnsc_sta21(at)navy.mil.  Point of contact for the nuclear target option 
policy change is the Nuclear Enlisted Community Manager, OPNAV N133D at (703) 
604-5491/DSN 664 or via e-mail at bullnuke(at)navy.mil.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
