CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 022019Z JUL 24 MID120001259989U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 132/24 
 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N7/JUN// 
 
SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2025-2026 STRATEGIST, NATIONAL SECURITY, AND INNOVATION 
FELLOWSHIPS AND GRADUATE EDUCATION SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS CALL FOR 
APPLICATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/23JUN10// 
REF/B/DOC/SECDEF WASHINGTON DC/30NOV16// 
REF/C/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/18APR24/NOTAL// 
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/141554ZJAN15// 
REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/APR23// 
REF/F/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/08JAN15// 
REF/G/DOC/DEPSECDEF WASHINGTON DC/15FEB24// 
REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/081821ZOCT21// 
REF/I/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/17JAN20// 
REF/J/DOC/CNO WASHINGTON DC/26JUN08// 
REF/K/DOC/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/15MAY19// 
 
NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowships, 
Graduate Education Programs, and Community Sponsorship. 
Ref B is DODINST 1322.23, Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF). 
Ref C is Memorandum for the Record: Federal Executive Host Institutions for 
Academic Years 2025-2026, 2026-2027, and 2027-2028. 
Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, Establishment of the Naval Strategy Subspecialty 
2300X. 
Ref E is NAVPERS 15839I, Manual of Navy Officer Manpower and Personnel 
Classifications, Vol I, dtd April 2023. 
Ref F is OPNAVINST 1520.24D, Officer Scholarship Program. 
Ref G is Office of the Deputy Secretary of Defense Directive-type Memorandum 
(DTM)-19-001 CH-2, Establishment of the Secretary of Defense Strategic 
Thinkers Program. 
Ref H is NAVADMIN 223/21, Update to Senior Officer Graduate Education 
Requirements. 
Ref I is OPNAVINST 1520.23C CH-3, Graduate Education. 
Ref J is Memorandum for Council on Foreign Relations Fellows: Council on 
Foreign Relations Fellowship Charter. 
Ref K is SECNAVINST 1320.1A, Secretary of the Navy Tours with Industry 
Program.// 
 
RMKS/1. This NAVADMIN is the call for applications for the Academic Year (AY) 
2025-2026 strategist, national security, and innovation fellowships and 
graduate education scholarship programs, and for the Class of 2026 Olmsted 
Scholar Program. 
 
2. Per reference (a), these programs are a primary means for developing naval 
strategists through exposure and learning opportunities at leading think 
tanks, academic institutions, and with industry partners. 
  a. Talented officers who complete these programs form a cadre of naval 
strategists able to leverage their experiences and the key relationships they 
have established to actively contribute toward efforts to improve Navy 
warfighting advantage. 
  b. Type Commanders and community managers are encouraged to identify 
quality candidates and encourage these future leaders to apply for these 
competitive programs. 
  c. Applicable programs include: 
   (1) Secretary of Defense Executive Fellowship (SDEF) Program 
   (2) Secretary of the Navy Tours with Industry (SNTWI) Fellowship Program 
   (3) CNO's Fellowship at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) 
   (4) U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship Program, University of Oxford 
   (5) Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF) Program 
   (6) Arthur S. Moreau (ASM) Program 
   (7) Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program (STP) 
   (8) Naval War College Advanced Strategist Program (ASP) 
   (9) Politico-Military Master's (PMM) Program 
   (10) Olmsted Scholar Program. 
 
3. AY2025-26 applications are due to OPNAV N712 (copy to PERS 44 POC) NLT 06 
September 2024. All supplemental information to the selection board must be 
received NLT 20 September 2024. The selection board will convene in early 
November 2024. Results will be announced no later than December 2024. 
  a. Officers may apply for all programs for which they meet the eligibility 
requirements via a single application. Annotate which programs you are 
applying for in the subject line of your application. 
  b. Please read program descriptions in their entirety. Unique or additional 
application and selection requirements are set forth in subparagraph 'b' of 
each section. 
  c. Applications require a personal statement to the board, a curriculum 
vitae, biography, and endorsement letters from both your commanding officer 
and detailer, plus any unique or additional requirements specified for each 
program. (The Olmsted Scholars program requires an Olmsted Data Sheet in lieu 
of a curriculum vitae and biography.) Send requests for application forms and 
any questions to the OPNAV N712 POCs listed in this NAVADMIN. 
  d. Service obligation is defined in individual program descriptions below. 
Most of these programs incur a service obligation of three times (3x) the 
number of months served in the program (normally 10-12 months), for a 30-36 
month obligation. 
Service obligation begins upon completion of or withdrawal from the program. 
Individuals who would be unable to complete the service obligation are 
ineligible to apply. 
  e. Interested officers should submit applications for all programs via 
encrypted email or DoD SAFE to the PERS 44 and OPNAV N712 POCs listed in this 
NAVADMIN. Prior to submission, ensure electronic copies are clear, legible, 
and properly endorsed. A single PDF containing all documents is preferred. 
  f. Additional information on graduate education and fellowship programs can 
be found in the program descriptions below. 
 
4. Secretary of Defense Executive Fellowship Program: This is a fellowship 
program and does not confer a degree. This program provides a venue for 
exceptional officers to experience innovative business practices within the 
nation's leading business enterprises. 
Military fellows from each of the Services are paired with senior executives 
in various companies known for their willingness to challenge and adapt their 
business practices. A successful SDEF tour combined with any previous or 
future non-resident master's degree from an accredited university will 
satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement for major command 
(see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: All active duty O5-O6 officers are eligible to apply. 
Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) officers are not eligible. 
Related graduate education and staff experience preferred. 
  b. Program information: Four (4) Navy officers will be selected for the 
AY25-26 program by the PERS selection board. Fellowships will begin in July 
2025. Past fellows were assigned to corporations such as 3M, Apple, Amazon, 
Boeing, Caterpillar, Cisco Systems, Exxon Mobil, JPMorgan Chase, FedEx, 
General Dynamics, Google, Intel, Lockheed Martin, Merck, Microsoft, Morgan 
Stanley, SalesForce, and SpaceX. More information can be found on the SDEF 
website at https://prhome.defense.gov/Readiness/Organization/FET/SDEF/. 
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: SECDEF Executive Fellows incur a 
service obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship. SDEF tours are normally 12 months in length, depending on the 
required detachment for the next duty station. SDEFs will be assigned to a 
follow-on billet focused on innovation and transformation as soon as 
possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore tour. Some officers 
may serve in multiple such positions after the fellowship tour, subject to 
career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or milestone 
tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: All officers who 
complete the SDEF program will receive the 2000S subspecialty code and the 
24F AQD code. 
 
5. Secretary of the Navy Tours with Industry Fellowship Program: 
This is a fellowship program and does not confer a degree. This 
program is a unique and non-traditional opportunity for exceptional 
Sailors to work with partnering corporations. SNTWI fellows are 
immersed in industry to learn and observe corporate processes and 
best practices. Fellows will be matched with a company based on the 
fellow's background, experience, and learning objectives. The 
company will then place the fellow in a position that will best meet 
the fellow's goals and objectives within their organization. 
Knowledge gained as a SNTWI fellow will assist in bringing 
innovative ideas and proven practices back to the Navy. In the past, 
fellows have been assigned to Amazon, Microsoft, Deloitte, Verizon, 
FedEx, Morgan Stanley, and Lockheed Martin (see reference (k)). A 
successful SNTWI tour combined with any previous or future 
non-resident master's degree from an accredited university will 
satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement for major 
command (see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: All active duty O3-O5 officers are eligible to 
apply. TAR officers are eligible for the SNTWI program. Officers 
must have a minimum of 5 years of service. Enlisted personnel E-6 
and above are eligible, but do not apply via this call for 
applications and must contact their detailer directly for 
consideration. 
  b. Program information: Up to ten (10) Navy officers will be 
selected for the AY25-26 program by the PERS selection board. 
Fellowships will begin in August 2025. The intent of SNTWI is for 
the fellow to achieve learning objectives that are important to both 
the individual officer and to his or her community. 
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: SNTWI Fellows incur a service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship. SNTWI tours are normally 12 months in length, depending 
on the required detachment for the next duty station. SNTWI fellows 
will be assigned to a follow-on billet focused on innovation and 
transformation as soon as possible, but not later than the second 
subsequent shore tour. Some officers may serve in multiple such 
positions after the fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on 
a not-to-interfere basis with command or milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: All officers 
who complete the SNTWI program will receive the 24G AQD code. 
 
6. CNO's Fellowship at the Council on Foreign Relations: This is a 
fellowship program and does not confer a degree. The purpose of the 
CNO's Fellowship at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) is to 
provide senior-level officers the opportunity to increase their 
understanding of policy development and decision-making at the 
highest levels of government by participating as Fellows at CFR. A 
successful CFR tour combined with any previous or future 
non-resident master's degree from an accredited university will 
satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement for major 
command (see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O6 (and O6 select) Unrestricted Line 
(URL) and Restricted Line (RL) officers are eligible to apply. TAR 
officers are not eligible. Applicants should have a master's degree. 
A graduate degree in national security affairs, international 
relations, strategy, or related discipline is preferred. The ideal 
candidate should possess a diverse background of warfare and 
academic excellence as well as politico-military experience and an 
interest in international affairs. The candidate should also have 
flag potential to allow for reutilization and provide maximum 
benefit to the Navy. 
  b. Program information: The CNO's Fellowship at CFR will begin in 
August 2025 following a two-week orientation course at the Pentagon. 
Three (3) nominees will be selected by the PERS selection board. 
OPNAV N7 will submit the nominees to CNO, who will personally select 
the one (1) officer who will serve as the CNO's Fellow at CFR. 
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: CNO Fellows at CFR incur a 
service obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of 
the fellowship. CNO's Fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months. 
The CNO's Fellow will serve at least one utilization tour in a 
validated naval strategist billet as soon as possible, but not later 
than the second subsequent shore tour. Some officers may serve in 
multiple strategy positions after the fellowship tour, subject to 
career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or 
milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: Officers who 
complete the CNO's Fellowship at CFR will receive the 2300S 
subspecialty code and the 24E AQD code. 
 
7. U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship Program, University of Oxford: This 
is a fellowship program and does not confer a degree. Hosted by St. 
Antony's College at the University of Oxford, the Hudson Fellow will 
attend the Changing Character of War (CCW) program, led by the 
History Faculty at Oxford. CCW brings together representatives of 
the United Kingdom Armed Forces, Government, and multi-national 
organizations to provide practical knowledge in the 
interdisciplinary study of war and armed conflict. A successful 
Hudson tour combined with any previous or future non-resident 
master's degree from an accredited university will satisfy the 
in-residence graduate education requirement for major command (see 
reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O5-O6 URL, and RL officers in 
designators 1710, 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. 
The University of Oxford prefers post-command officers. TAR officers 
are not eligible. Applicant must have a master's degree. A graduate 
degree in national security affairs, international relations, 
strategy, or related discipline is preferred. 
  b. Program information: The U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship will begin 
in August 2025 following a two-week orientation course at the 
Pentagon. One (1) primary and two (2) alternate nominees will be 
selected by the PERS selection board. Their names, CV, biography, 
and research proposal will be submitted by OPNAV N7 to the 
University of Oxford for final selection of the one (1) fellow for 
AY25-26. Applicants for the Hudson Fellowship must include a 2-page 
research proposal with their application. The Oxford research 
proposal template can be requested from the OPNAV N712 POCs listed 
in this NAVADMIN. 
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: Hudson Fellows incur a 
service obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of 
the fellowship. Hudson fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months. 
The Hudson Fellow will serve at least one utilization tour in a 
validated naval strategist billet as soon as possible, but not 
later than the second subsequent shore tour. Some officers may 
serve in multiple strategy positions after the fellowship tour, 
subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with 
command or milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: Officers who 
complete the Hudson Fellowship will receive the 2300S subspecialty 
code and the 24D AQD code. 
 
8. Federal Executive Fellowship Program: This is a fellowship 
program and does not confer a degree. The FEF Program provides 
selected due-course officers an opportunity to improve their 
understanding of the national security decision-making process 
through a one-year assignment at a world-class research organization 
or academic institution. A successful FEF tour combined with any 
previous or future non-resident master's degree from an accredited 
university will satisfy the in-residence graduate education 
requirement for major command (see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: Active Duty O4-O6 URL, and RL officers in 
designators 1710, 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. 
TAR officers are eligible for the FEF program. Applicants should 
have a graduate degree. A graduate degree in national security 
affairs, international relations, strategy, or related discipline 
is preferred. 
  b. Program information: Thirteen (13) officers will be selected 
for the AY25-26 Federal Executive Fellowship program by the PERS 
selection board. The fellowships will begin in August 2025 following 
a two-week orientation course at the Pentagon. One naval officer 
will be assigned by OPNAV N7 to each of the thirteen FEF 
institutions, which include: 
  (1) Atlantic Council, Washington, DC 
  (2) Brookings Institution, Washington, DC 
  (3) Brown University, Watson Institute, Providence, RI 
  (4) Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (CSBA), 
Washington, DC 
  (5) Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), 
Washington, DC 
  (6) Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies (DKI 
APCSS), Honolulu, HI 
  (7) Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA), Alexandria, VA 
  (8) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Security Studies 
Program, Cambridge, MA 
  (9) RAND Corporation, Arlington, VA 
  (10) Stanford University, Hoover Institution, Stanford, CA 
  (11) Stimson Center, Washington, DC 
  (12) Tufts University, The Fletcher School, Medford, MA 
  (13) United States Naval Institute (USNI), Annapolis, MD 
  c. Reutilization/service obligation: Federal Executive Fellows 
incur a service obligation three times (3x) the number of months of 
the fellowship. FEF tours are normally 10-12 months. FEFs will serve 
at least one utilization tour in a validated naval strategist billet 
as soon as possible, but not later than the second subsequent shore 
tour. Some officers may serve in multiple strategy positions after 
the fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a 
not-to-interfere basis with command or milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: Officers who 
complete the Federal Executive Fellowship will receive the 2300S 
Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 24C AQD code. 
 
9. Arthur S. Moreau Program: This program leads to a doctoral degree 
(PhD). The ASM program is a two-year program for candidates seeking 
to complete a PhD or to achieve an 'All But Dissertation' status in 
a politico-military related field. The ASM program satisfies the 
in-residence graduate education requirement for major command 
(see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O5, URL-only are eligible to apply. 
This includes O3s selected for O4 who will be promoted prior to the 
start of the academic year (July-August 2025). TAR officers are not 
eligible. ASM candidates must already possess a master's degree in a 
politico-military related field such as national security affairs, 
international relations, strategy, or related discipline. 
  b. Program Information: One (1) officer may be selected for the 
ASM program. The selected officer in the ASM program will carry a 
full academic load during both academic years. The approved AY25-26 
institutions are listed below. GRE scores are optional for inclusion 
in the application package but may be required for university 
admission. 
   (1) Harvard University, Boston, MA: John F. Kennedy School of 
Government. 
   (2) Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC: School of Advanced 
International Studies. 
   (3) Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA: Graduate Program in 
International Studies (GPIS). 
   (4) Princeton University, Princeton, NJ: Princeton School of 
Public and International Affairs. 
   (5) Tufts University, Medford, MA: The Fletcher School. 
   (6) University of California, San Diego (UCSD), San Diego, CA: 
School of Global Policy and Strategy. 
   (7) University of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Department of Political 
Science. 
   (8) University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA: Department of 
Politics. 
   (9) University of Washington, Seattle, WA: Henry M. Jackson 
School of International Studies. 
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: ASM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the 
education program, up to 72 months total. ASM graduates will serve 
at least one tour in a validated naval strategist billet, subject 
to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or 
milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: ASM graduates 
will earn either the 2300P or the 2300D Naval Strategy subspecialty 
code and the 24B AQD code. The Educational Plan (EP) for ASM 
scholars must be in compliance with the 2300P ESRs. 
 
10. Secretary of Defense Strategic Thinkers Program: This program 
confers a Master of International Public Policy (MIPP) degree. The 
STP program is a one-year master's program at the Johns Hopkins 
University School of Advanced International Studies (JHU SAIS) 
campus in Washington, DC, where students will develop advanced 
analytical and strategic thinking skills. The STP program satisfies 
the in-residence graduate education requirement for major command 
(see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O4-O5 URL, and RL officers in 
designators 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. TAR 
officers are eligible for STP. Per reference (g), completion of JPME 
I and graduation in the top 20 percent of one's JPME class (or a 
favorable letter of recommendation from a professor, if a 
distance-learning course) is required. A minimum of ten years of 
active duty service is required. Officers who have already 
participated in Department of Defense-funded graduate education 
programs are not eligible. Those officers who earned a degree 
through the Tuition Assistance Program or a Service or Joint War 
College retain their eligibility for STP and do not need a waiver 
(see reference (i)). 
  b. Program information: Two (2) Navy officers will be selected 
for the AY25-26 program by the PERS selection board. OSD will review 
the Navy selections and make the final approval. STP selectees will 
be required to provide a second letter of recommendation in addition 
to the CO's endorsement. STP selectees will carry a full academic 
load during the academic year. Additional information can be found 
at https://sais.jhu.edu/admissions/masters-program-admissions/how-apply/us-
military-and-veteran-applicants/strategic. GRE scores 
are optional for inclusion in the application package, but may be 
required for admission to JHU SAIS. Proof of JPME I completion (as 
described in paragraph 10.a.) must be submitted as part of the 
application package. 
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: STP graduates will incur a 
service obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in 
the education program, up to 36 months total. STP graduates will 
serve at least one tour in a validated naval strategist billet, 
subject to career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with 
command or milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: STP graduates will earn 
the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 223 AQD code. 
 
11. Naval War College Advanced Strategist Program: This program 
confers a Master of Arts in National Security and Strategic Studies 
and JPME Phase II certification. The Advanced Strategist Program 
(ASP) is a specialized track at the Naval War College in Newport, RI 
to develop officers skilled in formulating, developing, and 
executing strategy at various leadership levels in order to fill key 
billets in Navy, Joint, and high-level political staffs. The Naval 
War College ASP program satisfies the in-residence graduate 
education requirement for major command (see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O5-O6 URL, and RL officers in 
designators 1810, 1820, and 1830, are eligible to apply. TAR 
officers are eligible for ASP. 
  b. Program information: Up to five (5) Navy officers will be 
selected for the AY25-26 Advanced Strategist Program by the PERS 
selection board. Officers must also be screened by their community 
for resident senior-level war college in order to participate in 
ASP. The 13-month program is completed in conjunction with the 
College of Naval Warfare curriculum. Additional information can be 
found at https://usnwc.edu/college-of-naval-warfare/Additional-Academic-
Opportunities/Advanced-Strategist-Program. Preference will 
be given to those applicants with strong academic backgrounds, 
particularly in Political Science, History or Economics, and 
officers with proven track records of performance, who are capable 
of serving at the highest level of the U.S. Government, such as the 
White House, NSC, or the Navy Staff and the Joint Staff (in 
designated strategist billets). 
  c. Reutilization/Service obligation: ASP graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the 
education program, up to 39 months total. ASP graduates will serve 
at least one tour in a validated naval strategist billet, subject to 
career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or 
milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: NWC ASP 
graduates will earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty code. 
 
12. Politico-Military Master's Program: This program confers a 
master's degree. The PMM program provides officers a graduate 
education in strategy and politico-military affairs at leading 
civilian universities. The PMM program is a key component of the 
Navy Strategic Enterprise, educating naval strategists who will be 
utilized in subsequent strategy and policy-related billets. The PMM 
program satisfies the in-residence graduate education requirement 
for major command (see reference (h)). 
  a. Eligibility: Active duty O3-O5 URL, and RL officers in 
designators 1710, 1810, 1820, 1830, and 1840, are eligible to apply. 
This includes O2s selected for O3 and who will be promoted prior to 
the start of the academic year (July-August 2025). Preference will 
be given to junior officers (O3-O4). TAR officers are not eligible. 
Officers who have already participated in a Department of Defense- 
funded graduate education program are not eligible. Those officers 
who earned a degree through the Tuition Assistance Program or a 
Service or Joint War College retain their eligibility for PMM and do 
not need a waiver (see reference (i)). 
  b. Program information: Eight (8) officers will be selected for 
the one-year PMM program. Selected officers will carry a full 
academic load during the academic year. The approved AY25-26 
institutions and their associated degree programs are listed below. 
GRE scores are optional for inclusion in the application package but 
may be required for university admission. 
   (1) Harvard University, Boston, MA: Mid-Career Master in Public 
Administration, John F. Kennedy School of Government. 
   (2) Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC: Master of 
International Public Policy, School of Advanced International 
Studies. 
   (3) Princeton University, Princeton, NJ: Master in Public Policy 
(MPP) - International Relations, Princeton School of Public and 
International Affairs. 
   (4) Tufts University, Medford, MA: Master of Arts, The Fletcher 
School. 
   (5) University of California, San Diego (UCSD), San Diego, CA: 
Master of Advanced Studies in International Affairs (MAS-IA), School 
of Global Policy and Strategy. 
   (6) University of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Master of Arts, Committee 
on International Relations. 
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: PMM graduates incur a service 
obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months in the 
education program, up to 36 months total. PMM graduates will serve 
at least one tour in a validated naval strategist billet, subject to 
career timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with command or 
milestone tours. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: PMM graduates 
will earn the 2300P Naval Strategy subspecialty and the 24A AQD 
code. The Educational Plan (EP) for PMM scholars must be in 
compliance with the 2300P ESRs. 
 
13. Olmsted Scholars: This program may confer a master's degree, 
which would satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement 
for major command (see reference (h)). The Olmsted Scholar Program 
offers outstanding young military leaders an unsurpassed opportunity 
to achieve fluency in a foreign language, pursue graduate study at 
an overseas university and acquire an in-depth understanding of 
foreign cultures, thereby equipping them to serve in positions of 
greater responsibility as senior leaders. This unique scholarship 
opportunity supports the DoD emphasis on developing language skills 
and regional cultural knowledge across the force. 
  a. Eligibility: All active duty officers with the designators 
1110, 1120, 1130, 1140, 1310, 1320, 1810, 1820, 1830, or 3100 with 
at least three years of Active Federal Commissioned Service (AFCS) 
and no more than 13.5 years of total Active Federal Service (AFS), 
with both periods of service calculated as of 01 April 2025, are 
eligible to apply. TAR officers are not eligible. 
  b. Program Information: The Navy is seeking applicants who display 
the warfighting and intellectual qualities of dedicated career 
officers who aspire to command. Applicants should be available to 
commence language training in summer/fall 2025 at the Defense 
Language Institute Foreign Language Center in Monterey, CA or 
Washington, DC, begin two years of study at a foreign university in 
2026 and complete their studies in 2028. Olmsted notifications will 
occur in two phases. Navy nominees will be notified via email 
following the Navy selection board in November 2024. Scholars 
selected by the Olmsted Foundation Board of Directors will be 
notified via email following the selection board in March 2025. GRE 
and DLAB scores are required. 
  c. Reutilization/Service Obligation: Olmsted Scholars incur a 
service obligation equal to three times (3x) the number of months 
in the education program, which will be calculated based on the 
number of months the officer is assigned to an overseas university. 
  d. Subspecialty Code/Additional Qualification Code: Olmsted 
Scholars will earn the 219 AQD code. Additionally, if they complete 
a degree in a politico-military field they may earn a 2XXXP 
subspecialty code and become eligible to fill validated 
subspecialty-coded billets. 
 
14. Points of Contact: Contact the POCs listed below 
for program-specific details and questions. 
  a. OPNAV: Ms. Jennifer Rigdon Teter, N712 Deputy Branch Head, 
703-692-1934, jennifer.c.rigdonteter.civ@us.navy.mil; LT Erick 
Lozano, N712 Action Officer, 703-695-6746, 
erick.j.lozano.mil@us.navy.mil; Ms. Hannah Olivieri, N712 Contract 
Support, 703-693-0450, Hannah.g.olivieri.ctr@us.navy.mil. 
  b. NAVPERSCOM: LCDR Andrew Norris, PERS-440B, 901-874-3996, 
PERS-440_submit.fct@navy.mil. 
  c. OLMSTED: N712 POCs above plus Ms. Elise McGuire, 
Navy Olmsted Scholar Program Manager, 850-473-6064, 
elise.t.mcguire.civ@us.navy.mil. 
  d. NWC: Prof. David Brown, ASP Lead, 401-841-7364, 
david.brown@usnwc.edu; Ms. Michelle Pacheco, ASP Contract Support, 
401-856-5492, michelle.pacheco@usnwc.edu. 
 
15. Released by VADM D. W. Dwyer, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Warfighting Development (N7).// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

