UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 221849Z FEB 22 MID200001490538U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO SECNAV WASHINGTON DC 
CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 042/22 
 
MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO/FEB// 
 
SUBJ/UPDATED COVID CONSOLIDATED DISPOSITION AUTHORITY DATA REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS AND LESSONS LEARNED// 
 
REF/A/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/011621ZNOV21// 
REF/B/DOC/BUPERS/16MAR20// 
REF/C/NAVADMIN/OPNAV/151203ZDEC21// 
 
NARR/REF A IS NAVADMIN 249/21, CCDA DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS. 
REF B IS BUPERSINST 1730.11A, STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE 
ACCOMMODATION OF RELIGIOUS PRACTICES.   
REF C IS NAVADMIN 283/21,? CCDA EXECUTION GUIDANCE TO COMMANDERS. 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN updates reference (a) guidance to Commanders for 
reporting unvaccinated Navy service members. 
 
2.  To ensure accurate accounting of personnel who have not received the 
COVID-19 vaccination for any reason, all Commanders are directed to ensure 
that every unvaccinated Navy service member under their command is accurately 
reported in accordance with reference (a) as modified by this 
NAVADMIN.  Commanders shall not report non-Navy service members under their 
command. 
 
3.  Reporting 
 
3.a.  The vaccination status of many service members has changed since 
initially reported.  In all such cases, Commanders are directed to update 
reporting on those individuals in line with reference (a) and this NAVADMIN. 
 
3.b.  Submit updated data via the Department of the Navy (DON) COVID Tracking 
Site at https//portal.secnav.navy.mil/cop/crc/covid/.  Echelon 1 and 2 
Commanders shall compile and provide the data directed in paragraph 3 of 
reference (a) on all Navy service members who are not fully 
vaccinated.  Submission may be delegated to subordinate echelon 3 
commands.  An updated template excel file is available at the MyNavy Portal 
site at https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/navy-covid-19-reporting and shall be 
used for reporting.  Commands will also ensure that the Medical Readiness 
Reporting System (MRRS) is updated to be consistent with information 
submitted to the DON COVID Tracking Site. 
 
4.  Categories 
 
4.a.  Unvaccinated, refuser:  Navy service members who have not received the 
COVID-19 vaccine and do not have a pending or approved exemption request. 
 
4.b.  Unvaccinated, vaccination series started but not complete: Navy service 
members who have received the first of a two shot series, but have not yet 
received the second shot.  Service members who exceed the recommended 
timeline for the second shot by more than five days shall be updated as 
*unvaccinated, refuser* unless they meet the requirements of another 
reporting category, in which case they shall be updated to the appropriate 
category. 
 
4.c.  Unvaccinated, pending medical exemption:  Navy service members who have 
had a military medical provider (MMP) submit a medical exemption request on 
their behalf.  Commanders shall only report service members in this category 
if they have communication from a MMP confirming the MMPs request for a 
permanent exemption to a medical flag officer approving authority on behalf 
of the service member.  Note that because temporary medical exemptions are 
determined by a local MMP, they will not be reported in this category since 
they are either approved or disapproved at the point of care.  If approved, 
Commanders shall update the reporting category to *unvaccinated, approved 
medical exemption* as soon as practical.  If disapproved, Commanders shall 
update reporting to the appropriate category based on the member’s 
vaccination status. 
 
4.d.  Unvaccinated, approved medical exemption:  Navy service members who 
have received approval of a vaccine exemption to accommodate a medical 
condition.  This applies to both permanent and temporary approvals.  When a 
temporary medical exemption expires, Commanders shall update reporting to the 
appropriate category based on the members vaccination status. 
 
4.e.  Unvaccinated, pending religious accommodation:  Navy service members 
who have submitted a vaccine exemption request (or appeal) to accommodate a 
religious practice.  Commanders shall only report service members in this 
category if they have forwarded the request (or appeal) to OPNAV N131 and 
received an acknowledgement as outlined in paragraph 5 below.  If approved, 
Commanders shall update the reporting category to *unvaccinated, approved 
religious exemption* as soon as practical.  If disapproved and vaccination 
has not commenced within 5 days, Commanders shall update reporting to 
*unvaccinated, refuser* at that point unless another category applies, in 
which case reporting shall be updated to the appropriate category. 
 
4.f.  Unvaccinated, approved religious exemption:  Navy service members who 
have received approval of a vaccine exemption request (or appeal) to 
accommodate a religious practice. 
 
4.g.  Unvaccinated, has not had access to vaccination due to operational 
schedule and/or remote location:  Navy service members who have not had the 
opportunity to be vaccinated for operational reasons as endorsed by their 
Commander.  Service members who do not initiate vaccination within five days 
upon completion of duty which precluded vaccination shall be updated as 
*unvaccinated, refuser* unless they meet the requirements of another 
reporting category, in which case they shall be updated to the appropriate 
category. 
 
4.h.  Vaccination series complete, previously reported as unvaccinated:  Navy 
service members who were initially reported as unvaccinated, but have since 
received the complete COVID-19 vaccination series.  Commanders shall report 
this status as soon as practical after the vaccine series is complete.  It is 
important to note that this category is new since reference (a) was 
transmitted. 
 
5.  Additional guidance 
 
5.a.  Commanders shall submit religious accommodation exemption 
requests in line with reference (b) by emailing 
ALTN_Navy_Religious_Accommodations(at)navy.mil.  Commands should receive  
e-mail acknowledgement of receipt from OPNAV N131 within 48 hours.  If the 
command has not received acknowledgement, including those requests which were 
previously submitted at any time in the past, e-mail the above address to 
ensure the religious accommodation waiver request was received by OPNAV 
N131.  For additional information regarding procedures governing the 
accommodation of religious practices policy and templates, please visit 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Support-Services/Religious-Accommodations/. 
 
5.b.  Each Commander is responsible for accurate and timely reporting of data 
on all unvaccinated Navy service members under their command to precisely 
reflect all required fields, including demographic and command information in 
addition to the members DoD ID number and duty status, even if the data is 
being compiled at higher echelons.  Note that there are three choices for 
duty status - *active component*, *full-time support* (full-time support and 
training and administrative of the reserve) and *selected reserve* 
(SELRES).  For SELRES Sailors on active duty orders, indicate *selected 
reserve* as duty status. 
 
5.c.  In cases where service members have transferred, the previous command 
must coordinate with the gaining command to ensure that the CCDA data 
reporting requirements of reference (a) and this NAVADMIN are complete and 
accurate. 
 
6.  Reference (c) provides direction with respect to administrative 
separation due to refusing the vaccine.  Commanders shall submit required 
reports within reference (c) directed timelines upon determination that a 
Navy service member is refusing the vaccine. 
 
7.  Point of contact.  OPNAV POC:  CAPT Jason Grizzle, e-mail: 
ALTN_N1_NAVY_SCR.FCT(AT)NAVY.MIL. 
 
8.  Released by VADM John B. Nowell, Jr, Chief of Naval Personnel.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

