UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 191725Z MAR 20 MID110000494986U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 076/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/MAR//

SUBJ/FY20-21 SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH INDUSTRY ANNOUNCEMENT 
(CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/SECNAV/15MAY19//
AMPN/REF A IS SECNAVINST 1320.1A, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY TOURS WITH INDUSTRY 
PROGRAM.

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the Fiscal Year (FY) 20-21 Secretary of the 
Navy Tours with Industry (SNTWI) program, as directed in reference (a).  This 
program is a unique and non- traditional opportunity for exceptional Active 
Component (AC) and Full-Time Support (FTS) Sailors (E-6 to O-6) to work with 
partnering corporations.  SNTWI Fellows are included and immersed in industry 
to learn and observe corporate processes and best practices.
Knowledge gained as a SNTWI Fellow will assist in bringing innovative ideas 
and proven practices back to the Navy.  Past Fellows were assigned to VMware, 
Qualcomm, Apple, Boeing, Tesla, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, GE Digital, 
Amazon, FedEx, Northrup Grumman, Space X, LinkedIn and USAA.

2.  Officer applications must be routed through the applicants detailer, and 
the respective Community Distribution Division will select candidates.  
Enlisted applications should be sent to the SNTWI program office at 
sntwi_support.fct(at)navy.mil.  Eligibility will be based solely on 
individual community needs and demands.  The SNTWI application (NAVPERS 
1330/4) is a requirement to apply for the program.  For more information 
visit My Navy Portal via https://my.navy.mil/quick-links.html and click on 
NPC, Career Info, Talent Management and the Secretary of the Navy Tours with 
Industry.
The Secretary of the Navy Tours With Industry Program Application, NAVPERS 
1330/4, is available online at
https://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/reference/forms/NAVPERS/Pages/default.aspx.  All candidates must provide 
a biography and resume which will be submitted to their first choice company 
if selected.  Partner companies have final approval of candidates.

3.  Eligibility:  Applicants must be high performing and within physical 
standards of readiness.  Applicants must be within 3 months of their 
Projected Rotation Date (PRD) by September 2020 to be eligible for 
participation.  *Off-cycle* reporting to a company will be considered based 
on community needs or operational requirements.
Participation in the program should not negatively impact the career 
progression of the applicant.  Applicants who are within 11 months of a 
career milestone or not positively endorsed by their community will not be 
considered for this program.

4.  Service Obligation:  Tours are normally 10-12 months in length, depending 
on community and corporate requirements.  Selectees incur a service 
obligation for three times the number of months in the SNTWI program (i.e. 
30-36 months).

5.  In addition to the eligibility requirements, additional restrictions 
apply.
    a.  Selected Reservists are not eligible for this program.
    b.  Applicants who are within 3 years of separating are not eligible for 
this program.
    c.  Applicants who are within 3 years of statutory retirement and/or have 
requested retirement are not eligible for this program.
    d.  Enlisted applicants who are not approved for reenlistment or have no 
intention of reenlisting and are within 1 year of reenlistment by July 2020 
are not eligible for this program.

6.  All communities must submit the names of their selectees to the Director 
of SNTWI no later than 30 April 2020.  Names of selectees submitted after 30 
April 2020 will be considered on a case-by-case basis (i.e. awaiting 
promotion selection results).  Communities are encouraged to submit alternate 
names for unfilled quotas.  Selectees will be matched with a company by July 
2020.  Communities are responsible for notifying selectees of acceptance 
status.

7.  Learning objectives must be approved by the community of the applicant 
and must be aligned with the community mission.  We will pair selectees with 
companies that will best match the needs of the learning objectives.

8.  Notes:
    a.  Surface Warfare Officer (SWO):  Tours with Industry selections have 
already been made for FY20-21.  SWOs must have SWO qualification completed 
and screened for Department Head (DH) to apply for the program.  Selectees 
must sign for DH Retention Bonus contract to be eligible.
    b.  Aviation:  Contact your detailer with questions regarding eligibility 
regardless of Active-Duty Service Obligation from winging and Aviation Career 
Continuation Pay fulfillment.
Applicants must not be up for sea duty, and must have a due course record.
    c.  Civil Engineer Corps:  No applications accepted for FY20-21 due to 
manning levels.
    d.  All Designators:  Contact your detailer for more information.  Quotas 
may not be filled due to manning levels.
Officers screened *not cleared* for their next career milestone are not 
eligible.  Executing orders, slating to a billet, or serving in a hard fill 
billet or one with significant training required could disqualify a candidate 
for consideration and eligibility.
Applicants are required to contact their detailer to discuss milestones and 
performance requirements to be considered for eligibility.
    e.  E6-E9:  Contact your detailer for more information.  Quotas may not 
be filled due to manning levels.  Executing orders, slating to a billet, 
serving in a hard fill billet or one with significant training required could 
disqualify a candidate for consideration and eligibility.

9.  Points of contact:
    a.  For community-specific eligibility and application questions, contact 
your detailer.
    b.  For program questions not pertaining to application and eligibility, 
contact sntwi_support.fct(at)navy.mil.

10.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

11.  Released by Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

