CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 221844Z DEC 22 MID200080617739U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 289/22

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC//

SUBJ/BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE//

REF/A/DOC/USC/27DEC21//
REF/B/DOC/DOD/15NOV22//
REF/C/DOC/ASN/14DEC22//

NARR/REF A IS TITLE 37, U.S.C. SECTION 402(B), BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE FOR 
MEMBERS ON ACTIVE SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES.  
REF B IS DODI 1341.15, BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE.  
REF C IS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY (MANPOWER AND RESERVE AFFAIRS) 
DELEGATION MEMO - BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces Navy policy and procedures for the 
implementation of basic needs allowance (BNA).

2.  In line with reference (a), reference (b) established Department of 
Defense policy for BNA.  Reference (c) authorizes the Chief of Naval 
Personnel to implement BNA policy.  The BNA program provides a monthly 
allowance to Sailors whose gross household income (GHI) and household size 
place them below 130 percent of Federal Poverty Guidelines (FPG) for their 
permanent duty station (PDS) location.
BNA provides additional income to address the difference between GHI from the 
previous calendar year (CY) and 130 percent of the FPG for the current CY.  
BNA is payable to eligible Sailors who voluntarily apply beginning on or 
after 23 December 2022.  These references, frequently asked questions, 
templates, and other BNA resources can be found here:  
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/Pay-
Benefits/N130C/.

3.  Eligibility.  In line with paragraph 3.2.a of reference (b), eligibility 
for BNA requires that a Sailor meets all of the following criteria:
    a.  They have completed initial entry training (IET).  For purposes of 
BNA, this coincides with a Sailor arriving at the first PDS after completion 
of all required training at any location, including training locations that 
are considered a PDS.
    b.  Their GHI during the most recent CY did not exceed 130 percent of the 
FPG for that year.
    c.  They have dependents enrolled in Defense Enrollment Eligibility 
Reporting System (DEERS) and listed on their legacy dependency 
application/record of emergency data (NAVPERS 1070/602).
    d.  They voluntarily applied for BNA and were certified by MyNavy Career 
Center (MNCC).

4.  Ineligibility.  In line with paragraph 3.2.b of reference (b) Sailors are 
ineligible to receive BNA if any of the following items
apply:
    a.  They have not completed IET.
    b.  They do not have any dependents.
    c.  Their GHI during the most recent CY exceeded 130 percent of the FPG 
for that year.
    d.  Their current, annualized GHI exceeds 130 percent of the FPG for the 
previous CY.
    e.  They are a midshipman at the United States Naval Academy or in the 
Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps.

5.  Screening.  MNCC will conduct monthly screenings.  No input from Sailors 
or commands is required for this screening.  The first monthly screening will 
be completed after the FPGs are released for the current CY.  MNCC will 
provide each command with a list of Sailors who have been screened as 
potentially eligible for BNA via enterprise customer relationship management 
(eCRM).

6.  Notification.  Sailors who screen as potentially eligible to receive BNA 
will be officially notified by their chain of command via a NAVPERS 1070-613 
(page 13) screening notification and be provided an application cover sheet 
as described in paragraph 13.
    a.  Units are required to report to MNCC the total Sailors notified each 
month by the fifth day of the following month.  Units will use the BNA 
monthly report described in paragraph 13 and submit it to MNCC via eCRM.  The 
report will include all subordinate unit identification codes that do not 
have their own commanding officer (CO).  Reports are not required if there 
have been no notifications.
    b.  If a Sailor is notified via page 13 that they may be eligible for 
BNA, they have 180 days to submit an application or they are deemed 
ineligible until rescreened.  Sailors who are notified during IET have 180 
days to apply after arrival at their first PDS after completion of IET or 
they are deemed ineligible until rescreened.
    c.  Once notified of potential eligibility to receive BNA, Sailors should 
further determine their eligibility based on their total GHI before starting 
an application.  Resources available to assist Sailors include but are not 
limited to their Command Pay and Personnel Administrators (CPPA), Personal 
Financial Managers (PFMs) at the local Fleet and Family Support Center 
(FFSC), and their Command Financial Specialists (CFS).  Additional resources 
can be found at: https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/Pay-
Benefits/N130C/.

7.  Application Process:
    a.  Sailors may submit an application whether or not they have been 
notified as potentially eligible for BNA.
    b.  Sailors in IET cannot submit an application until they have arrived 
at the first PDS after completion of all required training at any location, 
including training locations that are considered a PDS.
    c.  Sailors in receipt of separation orders may not apply for BNA.
    d.  Applications will be submitted to MNCC via eCRM in a single pdf file 
and must include the following:
        (1) Completed application cover sheet signed by the CPPA or other 
designated verifying official and endorsed by the CO.
        (2) Supporting documentation to confirm GHI in line with the 
definition of GHI in section G.2 of reference (b).
        (3) Copy of page 13 screening notification, if applicable.
    e.  Additional GHI considerations are described in paragraph

3.4.b.(8) and (9) of reference (b).
    f.  Sailors are encouraged to seek assistance during the application 
process.  Personnel available to assist with the application include but are 
not limited to CPPAs, PFMs at the FFSC, and CFSs.

8.  Application Adjudication.  MNCC is the adjudicating authority for BNA 
applications.  Adjudication will occur within 30 days of receipt of a 
complete and verified application endorsed by the CO.
MNCC will adjudicate applications as certified, ineligible, or incomplete, 
and will provide a detailed explanation of the outcome to the Sailor via the 
command through eCRM.
    a.  Correspondence to Sailors will be expeditiously retrieved from eCRM 
by the command and delivered to the Sailor.  The Sailor is required to 
initial the correspondence next to their name to confirm receipt.
    b.  If an application is adjudicated as certified, BNA is effective on 
the date of certification and the first payment will be made within 30 days.  
Counseling requirements listed in paragraph

3.7.c of reference (b) will be explained in the certification notification 
letter to the Sailor.
    c.  MNCC will maintain documentation, disaggregated by month, of all 
items listed in paragraph 3.5.f of reference (b).

9.  Special BNA Eligibility Considerations.  See paragraph 3.2.c of reference 
(b).  BNA will terminate 60 days after Sailors become ineligible due to their 
monthly GHI when annualized, exceeding 130 percent of the previous year FPG.  
For example, a Sailor that receives a promotion and becomes ineligible for 
BNA due to the pay increase will continue to receive BNA at the previously 
calculated rate for 60 days after the date of promotion.

10.  Computation of Allowance.  Monthly BNA payment is equal to 1.3 times the 
most recently published annual FPG for the CY during which the allowance is 
paid based on the Sailor household size, minus the Sailor GHI during the 
previous calendar year, divided by 12.  A sample BNA payment computation and 
information on BNA proration for periods of duty under 30 days are found in 
Figure 1 and paragraph

3.6.c of reference (b), respectively.

11.  Recertification Requirements.
    a.  In line with paragraph 3.7.b of reference (b), for Sailors receiving 
BNA, recertification by MNCC is required if any of the following occur:
        (1) 12 months have elapsed since their BNA was last certified.
        (2) Their monthly, recurring GHI increases by $150 or more per month.
        (3)  The number of dependents in their household changes.
    b.  If GHI increases by $150 or more per month due to changes other than 
military compensation, Sailors receiving BNA are responsible to notify MNCC 
via their CPPA through eCRM within 60 days.  MNCC will monitor changes in 
military compensation and will recertify eligibility when military 
compensation increases.
        (1)  GHI changes that require notification to MNCC will be submitted 
in eCRM using the GHI Update Document described in paragraph 13.  A new 
application is not required when providing routine GHI updates.
        (2)  Failure to notify MNCC within 60 days of a qualifying GHI change 
may result in termination of BNA eligibility and recoupment of any 
overpayment.
        (3)  GHI updates do not require CO endorsement.  CO endorsement is 
required for applications only.
    c.  MNCC will automatically recertify and recalculate BNA payments due to 
changes in military compensation or the number of dependents of a 
participating Sailor as long as DEERS is current and updated by the Sailor.  
MNCC will provide an updated adjudication via eCRM detailing any changes to 
BNA status.
    d.  No later than 10 January each year, Sailors receiving BNA will submit 
a GHI Update Document with substantiating documentation to MNCC to establish 
their previous CY GHI.

12.  Reserve Component (RC).  Members of the RC on Active Duty as defined in 
section 101 of title 37, U.S. Code may apply for BNA if otherwise eligible.  
For purposes of BNA, if the Active Duty orders are for temporary duty, the 
PDS is the Navy Reserve Center to which the member is assigned.  If the 
Active Duty orders involve a PCS, the new PDS location is used for purposes 
of BNA.

13.  BNA Documents.  Specific tools and templates are required to be utilized 
during the screening, notification, and application processes.  All items can 
be found here:
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/References/Pay-Benefits/N130C/.
    a.  The following document templates are required to be used in the 
execution of BNA:
        (1)  NAVPERS 1070-613 Screening Notification.  Utilized for all 
official notifications once a Sailor is screened as potentially eligible.
        (2)  Application Cover Sheet.  Required to be utilized for 
application submission to MNCC via eCRM.
        (3)  GHI Update Document.  Submitted by Sailors receiving BNA when 
criteria are met as described in paragraph 11.b and by 10 January each CY.
        (4)  BNA Monthly Report.  Units will submit the reporting template 
monthly via eCRM no later than the fifth day of each month with the total 
number of Sailors notified of potential eligibility.
No report is required if no Sailors were notified.

14.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled, or 31 
December 2027, whichever occurs first.  Point of contact for BNA policy is 
the Military Pay and Compensation Policy Branch (OPNAV N130).  OPNAV N130 can 
be reached via email at NXAG_N130C(at)navy.mil.

15.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

