UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 051744Z MAY 20 MID110000641041U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 134/20

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//DNS//

SUBJ/2020 BOB FELLER ACT OF VALOR AWARDS//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/MAY//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits nominations for the eighth annual Bob Feller 
Act of Valor Award for a Chief Petty Officer (CPO) and for the Junior Sailor 
Peer-to-Peer Mentorship Chapter Award for both afloat and ashore commands.

2.  Background.  The Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation established a 
prestigious award in 2013, named in honor of Major League Baseball (MLB) 
pitcher, National Baseball Hall of Fame (NBHOF) inductee, and Navy veteran 
Bob Feller.  Mr. Feller enlisted in the Navy shortly after the attack on 
Pearl Harbor while he was with the Cleveland Indians.  He served onboard USS 
Alabama (BB 60) as a Gun Captain, and during his time onboard the ship fought 
in both World War II theaters, earning eight battle stars.  Mr. Feller was 
released from active-duty having earned the rank of Chief Petty Officer 
(CPO).

3.  Award.  This unique award is intended to recognize a representative from 
three critical areas of Mr. Feller's life:  his MLB career, his service in 
the Navy as a CPO, and his enshrinement in the NBHOF.  Accordingly, the award 
will be presented to one active MLB player, one CPO, and one member of the 
NBHOF.  The Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation will also recognize a group of 
Sailors, 18-25 years-old, who have most effectively worked together as a team 
(in either a personal or professional capacity) to promote peer-to-peer 
mentorship and a reduction in Sailor destructive decision making and behavior 
in both afloat and ashore categories.  The awards will be presented at the 
Navy Memorial in Washington, D.C. on 12 November 2020.

4.  Eligibility and selection criteria.  Nominees for the CPO award must be a 
CPO (E7), active or reserve, and must be outstanding military professionals 
and leaders in their communities.  The following selection criteria for Navy 
nominees have been prescribed by the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation and 
are based upon the principles by which Mr. Feller lived his life.  Nominees
must:
    a.  Be outstanding leaders in the performance of all professional 
responsibilities and serve as an example to peers and subordinates as 
inspirational leaders.  Only those with three years of consistent outstanding 
documented performance (include three years of evaluations in the nomination
package) as a CPO should be considered.  Nominees must display good character 
and humility in their achievements.
    b.  Demonstrate community leadership through volunteer service, holding 
leadership positions within the organizations they serve.  Display a genuine 
desire to be better today than they were yesterday, and better tomorrow than 
they are today.  Provide an outstanding example of character and dedication 
to service for all to emulate.
    c.  Put the needs of others before the needs or wants of themselves.
This may be documented through evaluations and awards.  Both should show they 
led in the Navy or in their community to benefit the professional and 
personal development of others.  Accomplishments or achievements must be 
above and beyond the scope of their primary responsibilities.
    d.  Show unyielding support of the United States of America and fellow 
service men and women by having participated in patriotic events that 
celebrate all who serve our great nation.  These events should be documented 
individually in the nomination to show the depth of participation in various 
events over the past three years.
    e.  Above all else, prove to be beyond reproach in the manner in which 
they conduct themselves, treat others, and live by the Navy core values of 
Honor, Courage, and Commitment.

5.  Nominations for the Junior Sailor Peer-to-Peer Mentorship Chapter Awards 
(afloat and ashore) can be any group of Sailors 18-25 years-old, who have 
worked effectively as a team to enhance their command's mission and 
community's success in a manner consistent with the high ideals and personal 
example of Bob Feller.  Nominated teams of Sailors must consist of junior 
Sailors who have worked together to promote peer-to-peer mentorship and a 
reduction in Sailor destructive decision making and behavior.  Nominations 
must reflect accomplishments achieved during the 2020 Fiscal Year.  
Nomination packages must reflect:
    a.  How the leadership of nominated junior Sailors has provided an 
example that others desire to emulate and develops a desire for other Sailors 
to participate in peer-to-peer mentoring.  Provide the total number of 18-25 
year -old Sailors onboard, the total number of Sailors involved in the peer-
to-peer mentoring program, along with the names, rates, and ranks of the 
Sailors being recognized.  Provide the name of the group or team of Sailors 
(e.g., unit Junior Petty Officer Association, unit chapter of Coalition of 
Sailors Against Destructive Decisions, unit chapter of Sailors Against Sexual 
Harassment and/or Assault, or other similar groups) through which the 
nominated Sailors worked and describe the group's composition, function, and 
mission.
    b.  Community leadership through volunteer service and a genuine desire 
to be better today than they were yesterday, and better tomorrow than they 
are today.  Outstanding examples of character and dedication to service for 
all to emulate may be documented in submitted letters of appreciation and 
documented proof of community service hours in the nomination package.
    c.  That the group put the needs of others before the needs or wants of 
themselves.  This may be substantiated through awards or evaluations that 
show actions were performed that are above and beyond their primary scope of 
responsibilities in the Navy or in their community to benefit the 
professional and personal development of others.  Provide examples of special 
programs that were promoted with a description of the event and the level of 
participation and impact that enabled the greater success of others.
    d.  Unyielding support of the United States of America and fellow service 
men and women by having participated in patriotic events that celebrate all 
who serve our great nation.  These events should be documented individually 
in the nomination to show the depth of participation in various events.
    e.  That the group is, above all else, beyond reproach in the manner in
    which they conduct themselves, treat others, and live the Navy core 
values of Honor, Courage, and Commitment.

6.  Travel and lodging.  Travel to and from as well as lodging at the award 
site will be the responsibility of the award winner's command.  For group 
recognition awards, consideration should be given to remote participation 
and/or acceptance by a representative on behalf of the award winning group in 
order to minimize travel costs.

7.  Nominations.  Fleet, Force Master Chiefs and Echelon 2 Command Master 
Chiefs may each nominate one CPO and up to two (one ashore and one afloat) 
Junior Sailor peer-to-peer mentoring groups from their area of 
responsibility.  Nominations must be submitted on official letterhead and 
specify confidence in the nominee's professionalism as a representative of 
the Navy, and validity of the nominee's embodiment of the award criteria 
specified in paragraphs 4 and 5.

8.  Nomination packages.  Nomination packages must contain four elements:
    a.  Commanding Officer (CO) endorsement.  Each nominee's CO must endorse 
the nomination and express a commitment to facilitate the nominee's 
attendance at the award ceremony, if selected.
    b.  Narrative description.  Substantiate the nominee's or group's 
embodiment of the award criteria specified above.  This may include 
quantitative and qualitative data.  Anecdotal evidence, such as newspaper 
articles, letters of commendation and appreciation, and other recognition may 
be included.
    c.  Nominee biography and photo or photo of the group's participants.
Group pictures should include as many participating members as possible.  If 
chosen as the award recipient, the nominee's biography along with a high -
resolution photo will be used in printed and online material to publicize and 
document the award ceremony.  The biography should include hometown 
information as well as professional highlights and qualifications.
The biography and photo should be similar to those commonly associated with 
Navy leader biographies and official portrait photos.
    d.  Evaluations.  CPO nomination packages should include the nominee's 
evaluations from the past three years.

9.  Submission procedures.  Nominations must be received by 3 July 2020.
Nominations may be submitted electronically (preferred) to the point of 
contact or hard copy to the following address:

    Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy
    Attn:  Bob Feller Act of Valor Award
    2000 Navy Pentagon (4E392)
    Washington, D.C. 20350-2000

10.  Selection process.  The Office of the Master Chief Petty Officer of the 
Navy will consolidate all nominations, organize a ranking board and provide a 
summary to the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation.  The Bob Feller Act of 
Valor Foundation will make the final selection of the winner.  The winner 
will be notified via their nominating Master Chief.  The Office of the Master 
Chief Petty Officer of the Navy will notify those not selected.

11.  Point of contact is YNC(EXW) Jayna P. Sampson at (703) 614-4854 or via 
e-mail at jayna.sampson2(AT)navy.mil.

12.  For more information about the Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation visit 
www.actofvaloraward.org.  This NAVADMIN should not be interpreted to imply or 
extend a Department of Defense endorsement to any non-federal entity.

13.  Released by Mr. Andrew Haeuptle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

