UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 201342Z FEB 20 MID510000952585U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS
NAVADMIN 041/20

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N4/FEB//

SUBJ/INSTALLATION ACCESS CONTROL:  DEFENSE BIOMETRIC IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM 
CHANGE (CORRECTED COPY)//

REF/A/DOC/DEPSECDEF/17JAN20//

REF/B/DOC/DUSN/3FEB20//

REF/C/DOC/DOD/23JAN14//

REF/D/DOC/DOD/2JAN19//

NARR/REF A IS THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MEMORANDUM, GUIDANCE FOR 
RESUMING INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING.  REF B IS THE SENIOR 
DIRECTOR FOR SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE MEMORANDUM, DEFENSE BIOMETRICS 
IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM CHANGE: EXPLICIT ACCESS REQUIRED FOR FOREIGN NATIONALS.  
REF C IS DOD MANUAL 1000.13 VOLUME 1, DOD IDENTIFICATION CARDS:  
IDENTIFICATION CARD LIFE -CYCLE.  REF D IS DOD MANUAL 5200.08 VOLUME 3, 
PHYSICAL SECURITY PROGRAM: ACCESS TO DOD INSTALLATIONS.// POC/JAMES 
JOHNSON/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N462/TEL:  703-695-5516/EMAIL:
JAMES.A.JOHNSON4(AT)NAVY.MIL/
POC/ERIC HAMMETT/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N462/TEL:  703-695-5521
/EMAIL:  ERIC.HAMMETT(AT)NAVY MIL//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN directs Navy compliance with references (a) and (b) 
and provides amplifying guidance on foreign national physical access to Navy 
installations.  Effective 25 February 2020, the Defense Manpower Data Center 
will make programming changes to the Defense Biometric Identification System
(DBIDS) removing implicit access to all U.S. Navy installations located in 
the Continental United States (CONUS) to include Hawaii and Guam for foreign 
nationals and their dependents.  Foreign nationals in possession of a common 
access card (CAC) or their dependents in possession of dependent 
identification card will be required to be registered for explicit permission 
in order to access a Navy installation.  As used in this NAVADMIN, the term 
installation includes base, site, and facility.  Foreign national credentials 
must be provisioned for explicit access to each installation for which they 
are assigned and/or authorized access.  Adherence to the guidance and 
timelines contained in paragraph 3 below will minimize operational impacts 
and disruption to foreign military partners.

2.  Reference (d) defines the CAC as simultaneously establishing identity, 
fitness, and purpose for installation access.  CACs held by U.S. military, 
Department of Defense (DoD) civilian personnel and direct support U.S.
contractor personnel will continue to establish identity, fitness, and 
purpose.  Per references (a) and (b), CACs with a blue stripe will establish 
identity and fitness only.  Persons in possession of blue stripe CACs must 
establish purpose by appropriate documentation in order to gain access to a 
Navy installation.  Per references (a) through (d) eligible foreign 
nationals, including International Military Students, will be issued a CAC 
with a blue stripe.  Foreign nationals possessing a CAC with a blue stripe 
are limited to accessing only installations where they have an official duty 
or other authorized purpose which requires installation access.  Dependents 
of foreign nationals, if eligible, will receive a Uniform Services 
Identification Card (USID), DD Form 1173 that establishes identity only and 
they are limited to accessing only installations where they have an 
authorized purpose which requires installation access.

3.  Responsibilities
    a.  Commander, Navy Installations Command
        (1)  No later than 25 February 2020, Navy installations and any 
applicable installation associated sites will explicitly register foreign 
nationals, to include International Military Students, Foreign Liaison Office 
(FLO), Personnel Exchange Program (PEP) personnel, and their dependents, for 
access to their assigned duty station and facilitate the process for gaining 
access to additional Navy installations, as required.  This process will be 
executed by each installation via the DBIDS registration workstation, in 
coordination with tenant organizations, at each installation or site.
        (2) Access Rosters:  Upon receipt of the access rosters from tenant 
commands hosting foreign nationals currently enrolled in DBIDS, the Visitor 
Control Center (VCC)/access control personnel will explicitly grant access 
for foreign national personnel and their dependents to their assigned duty 
station (VCC personnel should refer to page 72 of the DBIDS User Manual for 
this process or the issued DBIDS Explicit Access Guide).  The VCC personnel 
will notify the foreign nationals host command of any foreign nationals who 
cannot be granted explicit access.  This may require the foreign national 
and/or their dependents, to conduct an in-person DBIDS enrollment at the VCC 
with supporting documentation, such as invitational travel orders.
        (3)  Ensure all foreign nationals possessing a foreign national 
credential are processed through the Visitor Control Process (VCP) at the VCC 
for their first visit to the installation or issuance of a new credential.  
Once purpose is established by completing the VCP they will be enrolled in 
the installation/site Physical Action Control System (PACS) for subsequent 
base entry.
        (4)  Per reference (d), installation entry control point personnel 
will scan all foreign national credentials when personnel enter the 
installation /site.
        (5) In the event that the installation/site Physical Access Control 
System is inoperable, or an installation/site is not equipped with a PACS, 
installations must verify foreign nationals U.S. Government issued 
Invitational Travel Orders, certification, other official orders, or other 
such documentation (e.g., similar to being able to provide vehicle 
registration and insurance documentation upon request) that establishes their 
purpose for accessing the intended installation/site.
        (6) Ensure installations adhere to the following:
            (a) Foreign nationals requiring access for official business to 
more than one Navy or DoD installation must have a signed letter, or other 
official documentation, issued by the appropriate U.S. Government Official 
identifying the purpose for access to the other installation(s); once purpose 
is established, foreign nationals will only be afforded access during the 
time periods identified in the members documentation for each individual 
location.
            (b) Verify that unofficial/leisure travel for foreign national 
students to other Navy installations is approved in writing by the 
responsible International Military Student Office (IMSO) or Commanding 
Officer (CO).  The foreign national must have the signed letter in their 
possession and request access at the VCC.
            (c) Per the applicable international agreement, FLOs and PEPs may 
be granted explicit access to all Navy installations, which allows them to 
travel with their host units in the performance of their duties, as 
determined by the responsible contact officer or Co.  FLOs and PEPs visiting 
installations where not assigned, will be required to report to the 
installation VCC with a signed letter, or other official documentation, 
issued by the designated contact officer or host CO identifying their purpose 
for access.
            (d) All foreign nationals on official business will carry their 
International Travel Orders, Visitors International Stay Admission (VISA), 
applicable international agreement, or other official documentation, on their 
person at all times while on the installation, and will present them to 
installation/site security forces when requested, for determining the purpose 
for access.  PEPs and FLOs on official business will carry their 
certification, issued pursuant to the applicable international agreement.
         (7) The installation CO is the approval authority for all access 
requests for that installation.  Regional commanders are encouraged to 
establish regional processes to facilitate access to other installations 
throughout their respective areas of responsibility.
     b.  Tenant COs and Directors of Navy Activities.  In order to minimize 
operational impact, adhere to the following:
         (1) Access Rosters:  No later than 21 February 2020, the IMSO or a 
designated officer at Navy Commands hosting foreign nationals  will develop a 
roster of foreign nationals currently enrolled in DBIDS and assigned to their 
respective command, schools, and training courses.  This list will be 
submitted to the Installation Security Office for review and processing.  The 
roster will
identify:
             (a) The foreign nationals full name
             (b) Assigned command
             (c) Start/end dates of issued orders
             (d) The foreign nationals DoD ID number
             (e) Dependents names (if above 18 years old - as applicable)
             (f) Dependents DoD ID number
             (g) Navy organizational point of contact name, phone number and 
DoD ID number (must be a U.S. Government official/sponsor)
             (h) Location(s) required
         (2) Navy tenant commands responsible for hosting foreign nationals 
in the U.S. that are tenant organizations aboard joint bases or other Service 
installations/sites will follow with the orders, regulations, and policies of 
the host service installation commander.
         (3) Ensure assigned foreign nationals always have in their 
possession CACs and/or USIDs and their U.S. Government issued Invitational 
Travel Orders, certification, other official orders, or other such 
documentation (e.g., similar to being able to provide vehicle registration 
and insurance documentation upon request) that establishes their purpose for 
accessing the intended installation/site.
         (4) Ensure that FLOs and PEPs visiting installations where not 
assigned, will be required to report to the installation VCC with a signed 
letter, or other official documentation, issued by the designated contact 
officer or host CO identifying their purpose for access.
         (5) Ensure unofficial/leisure travel for foreign national students 
to other Navy installations is approved in writing by the responsible IMSO or 
CO.  The foreign national must have the signed letter in their possession and 
request access at the VCC.
         (6) Navy tenant commands are responsible for validating, 
maintaining, and updating the list of their assigned foreign nationals, and 
for ensuring their check-in/check-out processes include the installation VCC 
to encourage enrollment upon reporting and disenrollment when detaching.
         (7) Tenant commands will maintain lists of foreign nationals for 
future data calls in support of installation access control.
         (8) All foreign nationals and their authorized dependents traveling 
to other Navy installations which they are not assigned to, are required to 
obtain approval in writing by the host commander or contact officer and 
encouraged to pre-register with the intended installation CO for the planned 
visit.

4.  Trusted Traveler, Escorting, And Sponsorship.  Per reference (d), Trusted 
Traveler privilege is prohibited for foreign nationals.  Foreign nationals 
may not escort or sponsor other persons aboard Navy installations.

5.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy CONUS installations to 
include Hawaii and Guam, their associated sites, and Navy owned standalone 
facilities.  Contents of this NAVADMIN will be incorporated into the next 
revision of OPNAVINST 5530.14 and applicable access control policies and may 
not be waived.

6.  Released by VADM R. L. Williamson, N4.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

