CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 091823Z DEC 22 MID200080581030U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 276/22 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC// 
 
SUBJ/FY-24 ACTIVE-DUTY NAVY AND NAVY RESERVE E9, E8, AND E7 SELECTION AND 
SCREENING BOARD MEMBERSHIP NOMINATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/10SEP14// 
AMPN/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1401.5C, SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR U.S. NAVY 
SELECTION BOARDS.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the solicitation of enlisted participants 
for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 Active-Duty Navy and Navy Reserve Master Chief 
Petty Officer (MCPO), Senior Chief Petty Officer (SCPO), and Chief Petty 
Officer (CPO) Selection and Screening Boards.  The experience gained from 
exposure to the board process is beneficial to all senior enlisted 
leaders.  Every MCPO, not otherwise restricted from participating in an 
enlisted board, is strongly encouraged to serve as a member on an FY-24 
enlisted board. In order to ensure our board membership requirements are met, 
immediate superior in command (ISIC) and/or type commander leadership are 
encouraged to seek out the best board member candidates within your purview 
and direct them to submit applications for the FY-24 enlisted boards. 
 
2.  FY-24 enlisted board schedule (recorders report one week early 
for training): 
    a.  Reserve/Training and Administration of the Reserve (TAR) E9/E8 
(combined):  6 through 17 March 2023 
    b.  Active-Duty E9/E8 (combined):  27 March through 21 April 2023 
    c.  Reserve/TAR E7:  30 May through 8 June 2023 
    d.  Active-Duty E7:  26 June through 21 July 2023 
 
3.  Due dates for member and recorder applications to be received by 
PERS-805: 
    a.  Reserve/TAR E9/E8 (combined):  19 December 2022 
    b.  Active-Duty E9/E8 (combined):  11 January 2023 
    c.  Reserve/TAR E7:  1 March 2023 
    d.  Active-Duty E7:  28 March 2023 
 
4.  Prior to submitting an application, review reference (a) which 
can be found at: 
    a.  Active:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-  
promotion/active-duty-enlisted 
    b.  Reserve:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-  
promotion/reserve-enlisted 
 
5.  In addition to membership criteria contained in reference (a) and on the 
Enlisted Selection Board Member/Recorder Application (NAVPERS 1400/2), the 
following also applies to board nominees: 
    a.  Must not have a relative or personal relationship defined in 
reference (a) serving on the same board in any capacity. 
    b.  All Navy relatives (Active Duty or Reserve) must be listed on the 
application form along with their rank and rate, even if not board eligible. 
    c.  Must not have been a member of the same board in the previous year. 
    d.  Must not be the subject of an investigation of any kind. 
    e.  If under care for any severe medical issues, the member shall consult 
with a treating physician regarding the possibility of travel in the time 
frame indicated.  The medical provider is not required to endorse the members 
application. 
 
6.  Additional information pertaining to board membership: 
    a.  Frocked MCPOs may participate as board members and are encouraged to 
apply. 
    b.  In select circumstances, Navy Personnel Command (NPC) may provide 
permanent change of station (PCS) order modifications if an applicant with 
PCS orders is selected to serve on an enlisted board. Selected board members 
should contact PERS-805 at (901) 874-3185/DSN 882 or via e-mail at  
pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil, if this applies.  Do not contact your detailer 
directly as they may be eligible before the board. 
    c.  Sailors desiring to sit on a board who are attached to deployed units 
will not normally be approved.  In rare circumstances and driven by needs of 
the board, concurrence on the application from a Fleet Master Chief (FLTCM) 
is required.  Applicants who PCS to a deployable unit after having submitted 
an application should notify PERS-805.  If the unit is due to deploy during 
or close to the board date, applicants should request that their application 
be pulled. 
    d.  Active-Duty and Reserve Component MCPOs are encouraged to 
apply for any of the above boards.  There are no restrictions 
preventing a Sailor of one component from serving on a board of the 
other. 
    e.  SCPOs and CPOs (to include frocked) may serve as recorders on any of 
the above boards for which they are not eligible. 
    f.  SCPOs may only apply to be a board member on CPO boards. 
    g.  Petty officers (E6 and below) may not serve on the boards in any 
capacity. 
    h.  Recorders must be stationed in CONUS, no exceptions. 
 
7.  The application form (NAVPERS 1400/2) can be downloaded from 
    a.  Active:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-  
promotion/active-duty-enlisted 
    b.  Reserve:  https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/advancement-and-  
promotion/reserve-enlisted 
 
8.  The signed application must be endorsed by the members commanding officer 
(CO) and forwarded directly to their cognizant Force Master Chief 
(FORCM)/FLTCM.  The FORCM/FLTCM will forward endorsed applications to PERS-
805 via e-mail at pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil or will return the endorsed 
applications to the member for submission.  In circumstances where the 
applicant is assigned to a joint command or otherwise does not have a 
FORCM/FLTCM, the application should be sent to PERS-805 by the commands 
senior enlisted leader (SEL), provided the SEL is not eligible for 
advancement on the board for which the applicant is submitting.  If you are 
unsure of your circumstance, please contact PERS-805. 
 
9.  Do not use request chits and do not forward applications through your 
commands administrative support personnel, including those of the command 
master chief (CMC), CO, or those of your FORCM/FLTCM. This will compromise 
board membership and invalidate your application.  Applications go directly 
to the CMC.  Forms received from, or routed through, individuals other than 
the applicant or the FORCM/FLTCM, except as specified in paragraph 8 above, 
will not be considered. 
 
10.  Board membership will be held in the strictest confidence. Once an 
application is submitted, a policy of non-disclosure has been ordered by 
Deputy Chief of Navy Personnel (DCNP).  Do not discuss applications or 
selection, if chosen to serve on a board, with anyone other than the CO, 
reporting senior, CMC, Chief of the Boat (COB), cognizant FORCM/FLTCM, or 
board support personnel at NPC.  It is appropriate for a CMC to be told by a 
member in the command of that members board service.  However, the CMC may 
not disclose their own service on a board to anyone other than the CO or 
next echelon ISIC.  Failure to adhere to this policy is a direct violation of 
the uniform code of military justice and will result in removal from the 
board and possible administrative or disciplinary action by DCNP. 
 
11.  Careful consideration should be given to a nominees application and 
availability to serve as a board member.  CO concurrence is required.  Do not 
recommend personnel that are under an investigation of any kind or those with 
severe medical issues.  If the CO initiates or becomes aware of an 
investigation after the initial nomination is submitted, notify the points of 
contact below immediately.  COs, CMCs, COBs, and applicants should understand 
that once selected, the member is under official orders to the board and 
requests for removal from board duties will not be granted except in extreme 
cases as specified in reference (a). 
 
12.  Points of contact: 
     a.  Enlisted Board Membership Clerk at (901) 874-3185/DSN 882 
     b.  Membership Branch Head at (901) 874-2209/DSN 882 
     c.  PERS-805 at pers-805.fct(at)navy.mil 
 
13.  Released by Rear Admiral James P. Waters, N13.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
