UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 081739Z JAN 21 MID200000527257U

FM CHINFO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 05-21/2021

SUBJ/2021 NAVY COMMUNITY OUTREACH PLAN//

REF/A/DOC/OSD/29SEP2020/-/NOTAL//
REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/16DEC19//
REF/C/NAVADMIN/24JUN16//
REF/D/NAVADMIN/04NOV20//

NARR/ Reference (a) is ATSD memo issuing DoD FY21 Public Affairs Community
Engagement Plan.  
Reference (b) is OPNAVINST 5726.8BC, Outreach: Americas Navy, and establishes 
Navy Community Outreach Requirements.  
Reference (c) is
NAVADMIN 148/16 announcing the American Connections program.  
Reference (d) is NAVADMIN 298/20 and outlines Navy COVID Standardized 
Operational Guidance. //
POC/Rob Newell/Civ/CHINFO/LOC:  Washington, DC/Tel  (703) 614-1879/Email:
robert.d.newell1(at)navy.mil//

1.  In support of references (a) thru (d), this NAVADMIN issues 
implementation guidance and tasks support for the Navy's Community Outreach 
Program for 2021.

2.  DoD HPCON levels, as well as guidelines imposed by the CDC and local
civilian authorities, currently prevent execution of the Navy community
outreach requirements outlined in references (a) and (b).  Commands are
encouraged, however, to use existing virtual IT platforms to engage with the
public while social distancing protocols and similar public health measures
restrict face-to-face engagements.  The following is provided to guide 
commands in these efforts:

3.  Data.  National Surveys show a growing understanding of the Navys 
importance to national security.
     a.  In 2009, only 12% of the country considered the Navy as the most
     important service to our countrys national security.  Today, that number 
has risen to 25%, exceeding the 2020 goal of 23%.
     b.  This rise has been driven by 18-29 year-old men.  In 2019, 28% of 
that age group viewed the Navy as most important. In 2020, the number rose to 
36%; 67 % of this group indicate they are very confident in the Navys ability 
to protect U.S. Interests.
     c.  By contrast, in 2019, 15% of 18-29 year-old women viewed the Navy as
     most important.  In 2020, the number rose to 16%.  Less than 40% of this 
group indicate they are very confident in the Navys ability to protect U.S.
interests.
     d.  Men are 43% more likely to recommend the Navy to a child or 
grandchild than women, and 136% more likely than women to report knowing some 
or a lot about the Navy.

4.  Goal.
     a.  Continue to increase the number of Americans who understand the 
Navys importance to national security.

5.  Objectives.
     a.  Ensure 50% of all Virtual/In-person Community Outreach Engagements
     focus on 13-29 year-olds and 50% of all engagements within this age 
group focus on 13-29 year-old women.
     b.  Increase the number of 18-29 year-old women who view the Navy as 
most important to national security from 16% to 21%.
     c. Increase the number of those who say they learned some or a lot about
     the Navy by attending a Community Outreach Engagement from 72% to 75%.
     d.  Increase the number of those who say that attending a Community 
Outreach Engagement made them more favorable to the Navy from 55% to 60%.
     e. Increase the number of those attending a Community Outreach 
Engagement who say they are extremely likely to recommend serving in the Navy 
to someone they know from 35% to 40%.

6.  Virtual Community Outreach: During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic forced the
Navy to adopt a virtual outreach model to engage key influencers and 
audiences throughout the country.  Many of the tactics developed proved 
effective in building sustained, robust community outreach to target 
audiences, and should be continued when in-person outreach activities resume 
post-pandemic.  Categories of virtual engagements that leverage these tactics 
and should be continued in tandem with in-person events when practical 
include:
    a.  Senior Executive Engagements: Opportunities in this category include
    hosted blogs and vlogs (video blogs); corporate, government, and academic
    virtual roundtables; specialty subject matter webinars in both an 
academic and a leadership context; and remote media interviews.
    b.  Unit and Command Engagements: Opportunities include pre-recorded and
    livestreamed content integrated into in-person events, as well as reuse 
of evergreen media produced during previous virtual events in other
    markets.  Virtual tours of ships and submarines proved particularly 
valuable in 2020 and have wide-ranging appeal in namesake markets.
    c.  Individual Sailor Engagements: Opportunities in this category focus 
on enabling engagements by hometown and namesake Sailors, as well as special
-interest conversations, in markets that these Sailors would be otherwise 
unable to engage due to logistic or operational travel constraints. 
Opportunities include Ship2Shore livestreams; social media collaborations in-
market; and YouTube moderated video watch parties.
     d.  For assistance in planning and executing virtual community outreach
     engagements, commands are encouraged to contact CDR John Fage, Director, 
Navy Office of Community Outreach at (901) 874-5802 or john.e.fage (at) 
navy.mil .

7.  When DoD HPCON levels and CDC guidelines warrant, reference (a) has
authorized the following community outreach programs for Calendar Year 2021
(CY21).  Authorization to resume these in-person activities will be announced
in subsequent updates to ref (d):
    a.  Fleet Weeks.  Los Angeles, CA, San Francisco, CA; Seattle, WA. 
Tasking and responsibilities for these events will be provided SEPCOR by 
cognizant operational and regional commanders.  As always, Fleet Week support 
is subject to operational availability.
    b. Navy Weeks.
        (1) Orlando, FL, 12-18 APR;
        (2) San Antonio, TX, 19-25 APR;
        (3) Spokane, WA, 10-16 MAY;
        (4) Buffalo, NY, 14-20 JUN;
        (5) Kansas City, MO, 28 JUN-4 JUL;
        (6) Fargo, ND, 19-25 JUL;
        (7) Cheyenne, WY, 26 JUL-1 AUG;
        (8) Boise, ID, 23-29 AUG;
        (9) Minneapolis, MN, 27 SEP-3 OCT;
        (10) Austin, TX, 1-8 OCT;
        (11) Denver, CO, 11-17 OCT;
        (12) Columbia, SC, 18-24 OCT;
        (13) Santa Fe, NM, 8-14 NOV.
The first five Navy Weeks in 2021 will be executed virtually due to projected
COVID-19 mitigation requirements and restrictions on travel.  Per reference
(b), the Navy Week program is a community outreach requirement, led by the 
Navy Office of Community Outreach (NAVCO), and is specifically designed to 
provide Americans around the country with the opportunity to personally 
connect with their Navy.  As such, principal stakeholders identified in 
reference (b), as well as subordinate commands specified in subsequent 
tasking, will support the 2021 Navy Week campaign to the maximum extent 
operational schedules allow.
    c.  The American Connections program, announced in reference (c), will
    continue to be a prominent component of the Navy 2021 community outreach
    strategy.  Managed by NAVCO, it was established to share the Navy story 
with media across the country serving markets that generally do not receive 
Navy news and information.  In 2021, the program will include the following 
elements:
        (1) Media production visits.  NAVCO deploys production teams to 
commands to produce feature stories and accompanying photos of assigned 
Sailors, which are provided to media outlets where those Sailors have local
        connections.  NAVCO is planning 10-15 Media Production Visits in 2021 
in support of key Navy communication priorities and programs. If travel is 
not feasible, NAVCO will work with commands to conduct remote media 
production visits.  In accordance with Ref (b), commands are required to 
support media production visits from NAVCO.  Expected areas of focus for 2021 
include: 
            (a) Surface Readiness/Shipbuilding
            (b) Aviation Modernization
            (c) Undersea Warfare
            (d) Strategic Deterrence/Ohio Replacement
            (e) Forward Deployed Naval Forces
        (2) Media advisory service.  Commands are encouraged to continue
        highlighting their Sailors awards, promotions, retirements, changes 
of command and other recognition by emailing content to 
navyoutreach(AT)navy.mil. NAVCO shares with media where Sailors have local 
connections and provides links to commands so Sailors can share with family 
and friends.
        (3) Fleet-produced content sharing service.  Every day, commands
        throughout the Navy produce hundreds of stories and photos featuring 
the professionalism of our Sailors and the accomplishments of Navy commands.  
NAVCO provides these stories and photos to media where Sailors have local 
connections and to media with ties to namesake units.  In accordance with 
reference (b), commanding officers are encouraged to, "ensure all internally 
produced media products for public release include local connections for any 
Sailors identified in stories and photos."
        (4) Radio shout-out service.  A toll-free telephone service (1-855-
OUR-NAVY or 1-855-687-6289) is available for Sailors to record a short 
greeting, which is shared with radio stations where Sailors have local
connections.  Greetings can be submitted in conjunction with a holiday or
observance, such as Thanksgiving, Veterans Day, etc.  Greetings can also be
sent from Sailors, or namesake units, to offer support to their home teams
participating in major sporting events. Those wishing to be notified of
shout-out opportunities can e-mail navyoutreach(at)navy.mil.
    d. Naval Aviation Outreach.  Naval Aviation outreach is particularly
    effective, in that it has the unique ability to bring a primary 
warfighting platform to inland markets.  The following Naval Aviation 
outreach activities are authorized in 2021 when HPCON levels and CDC/local 
authority health guidelines warrant:
       (1) 29 full Blue Angels performances.
       (2) 70 Navy Parachute Team (Leap Frogs) performances.
       (3) 4 Navy Hosted Air Shows/Open Houses.  NAS Oceana, VA; NAS Corpus
       Christi, TX; NAS Pensacola, FL; NAS El Centro, CA.  These events are 
authorized to have aerial demonstrations by aviation assets organic to the 
installation.
       (4) 42 TACAIRDEMO performances/Legacy Flights at Chief of Information
       (CHINFO)-authorized air shows at which the Blue Angels are not 
performing.
       (5) Aircraft static displays at CHINFO-authorized air shows and other
       events.
       (6) 50 flyovers (two aircraft maximum unless authorized by CHINFO),
       equally divided between East and West Coast aviation assets, at CHINFO
       -authorized events.  Sporting events are permitted one regular season 
and one post-season flyover at home games or matches, unless otherwise 
approved by CHINFO. Requests are submitted to NAVCO using DD Form 2535, 
reviewed by the Aviation Outreach Working Group (AOWG) consisting of 
representatives from CNAL, CNAP, NAVCO and CHINFO, before being forwarded up 
to CHINFO for final approval.
       (7) Aviation outreach support that falls into the following categories 
is not subject to limits specified in reference (a):
           (a) Military services retain operational authority over support 
for funeral and memorial service flyovers, which are not considered community
outreach events.
           (b) Flyovers for ceremonies and other events intended primarily 
for an internal audience are not considered outreach events and may be 
conducted with TYCOM approval.  This includes U.S. Naval Academy events.
           (c) Aviation outreach support, to include flyovers, at CHINFO
-authorized events in the local area are permitted when it is deemed by the
local or regional commander to be in the interest of maintaining good 
relations with key community partners and organizations.
    e. Continental United States Port Visits.  From an outreach perspective,
    there is no more effective means to showcase the Navy's capabilities and 
its talented Sailors than allowing Americans to visit a ship or submarine.  
As such, a maximum of 12 port visits for community outreach have been 
approved during 2021 when HPCON levels and CDC/local authority health 
guidelines warrant: Eastport, ME; New London, CT; New York City; Cleveland, 
OH; Erie, PA; Charleston, SC; Mobile, AL; New Orleans, LA;  Los Angeles, CA;  
Seattle, WA;  Portland, OR;  San Francisco, CA.  Other port visits conducted 
primarily for training or operational purposes are not subject to limits 
specified in reference (a).  Per reference (b), the following elements should 
be incorporated into every outreach port visit SOE:
            (1) Media day (pierside press availability and a shipboard tour).
            (2) Very important person (VIP) reception.
            (3) VIP tours for local civic and community leaders.
            (4) The maximum amount of public visitation possible to the 
extent that time and force protection restrictions permit.
            (5) Two or more community relations projects, such as beach clean
-ups, Habitat for Humanity, school visits, etc., with appropriate media
coverage.
    f.  Civic and Executive Outreach.  Reference (b) approves dedicated
    community outreach travel for non-governmental organization, civic and
    executive outreach.
        (1) 25 Executive Outreach Visits. Albany, NY; Indianapolis, IN;
        Charleston, SC; Burlington, VT; Lake Charles, LA; Nashville, TN; 
Duluth, MN; Ames, IA; Gary, ID; Montgomery, AL; Atlanta, GA; Abilene, TX; 
Trenton, NJ; Pittsburgh, PA; Seattle, WA; Dayton, OH; Madison, WI; Fairbanks, 
AK; Portland, ME; Houston, TX; Salem, OR; Harrisburg, PA; Charleston, WV; 
Raleigh, NC; Phoenix, AR. NAVCO administers the Navy's Executive Engagement 
Visit (EEV) program for flag officers, SES civilians and Post-Deployment 
Commanding Officers for the purpose of conducting in-person multi-day or 
virtual outreach engagements in U.S. cities.  NAVCO will coordinate 
itineraries for participating Navy leaders to include engagements with 
corporate executives, government officials, education leaders, civic groups, 
veterans organizations and media.  As an extension of the EEV program, NAVCO 
will also conduct outreach engagement visits for post-deployment commanding 
officers. 
        (2) Per reference (b), travel by flag officers, SES civilians and
        members of the command triad outside the local area to participate in 
community outreach and other representational events that demonstrably help 
achieve the Navy's mission are authorized and will be considered essential 
official business in the governments interest.
    g. Ship and submarine namesake crew visits.  One of the most effective 
means to connect Americans with their Navy is through strong and enduring 
namesake unit relationships.  In addition to the requirements specified for 
the Navy Week program referenced above, reference (a) approves visits by 
crewmembers of the following ships and submarines with namesake ties to their 
namesake city or state:
        (1) Ships: USS BAINBRIDGE, USS GONZALEZ, USS GRAVELY, USS ARLINGTON, 
USS DETROIT, USS BILLINGS, USS KANSAS CITY, USS SOMERSET.
        (2) Submarines: USS BOISE, USS COLORADO, USS NEW MEXICO, USS RHODE
ISLAND, USS SOUTH DAKOTA, USS TEXAS, USS TOLEDO, USS WEST VIRGINIA, USS
WYOMING, PCU IOWA, PCU MASSACHUSETTS, PCU MONTANA, PCU OREGON, USS ALABAMA, 
USS SANTA FE, USS ANNAPOLIS, USS CHICAGO, ISS PASADENA, USS LOUISVILLE, USS
ASHEVILLE, USS TOPEKA.
    h. Navy Band tours and ceremonial unit performances.  U.S. Navy Band and
    Fleet Band Activities will oversee and collect all new community outreach
    measurement guidelines as detailed in reference (a). Ref (a) approves the
    following:
        (1) Fall, spring, summer tours for the Navy premiere bands.
        (2) Fleet/regional band performances
        (3) International and Midwest Band and Orchestra clinic
        (4) Navy Band public outreach concerts
        (5) Concerts outside the National Capital Region
        (6) Large public concerts (DC Concerts on the Ave, Christmas concert)
        (7) Ceremonial Guard: Parade outside of NCR, 7 Navy Weeks
        (8) Approved participation in 2021 Virginia International Tattoo: 
U.S. Navy Fleet Forces Band
    i. Navy Birthday and Historical Observances.  Funding is approved under
    reference (a) for commands and activities to commemorate the Navy 
Birthday and Battle of Midway.  Commands are encouraged to align activities 
and events with the following significant anniversary dates in 2021:
        (1) March 3, 1871 (150) - Position of the Surgeon General of the Navy 
is created.
        (2) March 31, 1971 (50) - On the same day that USS JAMES MADISON 
(SSBN-627) departs of the first submarine patrol with the Poseidon C-3 
missile, the Navy establishes the office responsible for the development of 
its successor, the Undersea Long Range Missile System, later called Trident.
        (3) April 28, 1971 (50) - Samuel L. Gravely Jr. is among the captains 
on the rear admiral promotion list released on this date.  Gravely is the 
U.S. Navys first African-American flag officer.
        (4) June 15, 1946 (75) - The Navys Flight Demonstration Team, the 
Blue Angels, performs its first flight demonstration at their home base, 
Naval Air Station (NAS) Jacksonville, Florida.
        (5) July 1, 1946 (75) - The atmospheric nuclear weapon test, Able, is
        detonated during Operation Crossroads at the Bikini Atoll, Marshall 
Islands.
        (6) Sept. 11, 2001 (20) - Al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorists fly two
        hijacked passenger airliners, American Airlines Flight 11 and United 
Airlines Flight 175, into the World Trade Center in New York City, and a 
third, American Airlines Flight 77, into the Pentagon. A fourth hijacked 
airliner, United Airlines Flight 93, crashes in southwestern Pennsylvania 
after passengers attempt to subdue the hijackers.
        (7) Oct. 1, 1946 (75) - U.S. Naval Force Mediterranean, which 
eventually becomes Sixth Fleet, is established.
        (8) Nov. 9, 1921 (100) - USS OLYMPIA (C-6) arrives at the Washington
        Navy Yard from France carrying the body of the Unknown Soldier of 
World War I for interment at Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, VA.
    j.  Community Outreach in Local Areas.  For activities not included in
    reference (a), use of local resources to support outreach activities in 
the local area is authorized and encouraged.  Local area is defined in Joint 
Travel Regulation, Chapter 2, Article 0206.
    k.  Entertainment Media.  Support is authorized for entertainment media
    engaged in the production of the feature films Devotion and Top Gun: 
Maverick; television series NCIS and NCIS New Orleans; and other projects as 
deemed appropriate by CHINFO.
    l.  Aircraft Carrier, ship and submarine underway embarks for 
distinguished visitors and media will be authorized again as dictated by 
HPCON levels and CDC/local authority guidelines.

8.  All modifications beyond the scope of reference (a) require approval by 
the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public
Affairs.  Requests for an exception to policy must be forwarded through
CHINFO.  For additional questions pertaining to this NAVADMIN and the 
execution of the Navy's 2021 Community Outreach Plan, please contact Mr. Rob 
Newell at (703) 614-1879.

9.  Released by RDML C. W. Brown, Chief of Information.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//
