UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 212110Z JUL 20 MID510001464751U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 205/20 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N7// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N71/JUL// 
 
SUBJ/ACADEMIC YEAR 2021-2022 FEDERAL EXECUTIVE FELLOWSHIP, U.S. NAVY HUDSON 
FELLOWSHIP, AND SECRETARY OF DEFENSE EXECUTIVE FELLOWS CALL FOR 
APPLICATIONS// 
 
REF/A/DOC/CNO/22JUN2010// 
REF/B/DOC/OSD/30NOV2016// 
REF/C/DOC/N7/25JUN2020/NOTAL// 
REF/D/MSG/CNO/141554ZJAN15// 
REF/E/DOC/PERS/APR2019// 
 
NARR/Ref A is OPNAVINST 1500.72G, Navy Politico-Military Fellowships, 
Graduate Education Programs and Community Sponsorship.  
Ref B is DODINST 1322.23, Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF).   
Ref C is the slate of AY2021-22 and 2022-23 FEF host institutions.   
Ref D is NAVADMIN 011/15, Establishment of the Naval Strategy Subspecialty 
2300X.  
Ref E is NAVPERS 15839I, Manual of Navy Officer Manpower and Personnel 
Classifications, Vol I, of April 2019. 
 
RMKS/1.  This is the call for applications for the Academic Year 2021-22 
(AY21-22) Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF), U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, 
and the Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF) programs. Per reference 
(a), the FEF and Hudson Fellowship programs are among the Navy's key means to 
develop naval strategists through an exposure tour with leading policy and 
academic institutions.  As described in reference (b), the SDEF program 
provides a venue for exceptional officers to experience innovative business 
practices and to incorporate those best practices into the Navy in subsequent 
tours. Additional program information and instructions to sign up for 
education program notifications are available at 
https://www.mnp.navy.mil/group/training-education-qualifications 
e-graduate-education-and-fellowship-programs. 
 
2.  Navy Federal Executive Fellowship (FEF) Program.  The FEF program 
provides selected due-course officers an opportunity to improve their 
understanding of the national security decision-making process through a 
one-year assignment at world-class research organizations and academic 
institutions.  Fellows will serve follow-on tours in a number of critical 
strategy, policy, national security decision-making, and international 
engagement billets on major Joint and Navy staffs.  A successful FEF tour, 
combined with any previous or future master's degree from an accredited 
university, will satisfy the in-residence graduate education requirement 
for future unrestricted line flag officers. 
    a.  Eligibility:  Active Duty O4-O6 Unrestricted Line (URL) and 
Restricted Line (RL) officers in designators 1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830 
are eligible to apply. Full Time Support (FTS) officers are not eligible 
for the FEF program. 
    b.  Program specifics:  Thirteen (13) officers will be selected for the 
AY21-22 Federal Executive Fellowship program.  The fellowships will begin 
in August 2021 following a two-week orientation course in the Pentagon. 
Per reference (c), the thirteen FEF institutions include: 
 
        (1) Washington, D.C non-profit think tanks: 
            (a) Atlantic Council 
            (b) Center for a New American Security (CNAS) 
            (c) Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS)** 
            (d) Henry L. Stimson Center 
        (2) Washington, D.C. Federally Funded Research and Development 
Center: 
            (a) Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) 
        (3) Beyond the Beltway non-profit think tanks: 
            (a) Hoover Institution on War, Revolution, and Peace, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA. 
            (b) Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Chicago, IL. 
        (4) Beyond the Beltway universities: 
            (a) Tufts University, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, 
Medford, MA. 
            (b) Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government, 
Cambridge, MA. 
            (c) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Security Studies 
Program, Cambridge, MA. 
            (d) Georgia Institute of Technology, Sam Nunn School of 
International Affairs, Atlanta, GA. 
            (e) Carnegie Mellon University, Institute for Politics and 
Strategy, Pittsburgh, PA. 
            (f) University of Texas at Austin, Clements Center on National 
Security, Austin, TX. 
** The CSIS Fellow will also be an adjunct fellow at the United States Naval 
Institute (USNI), Annapolis, MD. 
    c.  Per references (d) and (e), URL officers who complete a FEF tour 
will receive the 2300S Naval Strategy subspecialty code and the 24C 
Additional Qualification Designation(AQD) Code.  Restricted Line officers 
will receive the 2000S National Security Studies subspecialty code and 
the 24C AQD code. 
    d.  Service obligation:  Per reference (a), Federal Executive Fellows 
incur a service obligation three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship.  FEF tours are normally 10-12 months.  URL FEFs will serve at 
least one utilization tour in a validated naval strategist billet on a 
major N5 or J5 staff as soon as possible, but not later than the second 
subsequent shore tour.  Some officers may serve in multiple strategy 
positions after the fellowship tour, subject to career timing and on a 
not-to-interfere basis with their command or milestone tours. 
    e.  Selection for the FEF program does not guarantee a specific 
geographic location for the Fellowship.  Fellows should expect a PCS move 
and plan accordingly. 
 
3.  U.S. Navy Hudson Fellowship, University of Oxford, UK: Hosted by 
St. Antony's College, the Hudson Fellow will attend the Changing Character 
of War (CCW) program, led by the History Faculty at Oxford.  CCW brings 
together representatives of the United Kingdom Armed Forces, Government, 
and multi-national organizations to provide practical knowledge in the 
interdisciplinary study of war and armed conflict. A successful Hudson 
tour, combined with any previous or future master's degree from an 
accredited university, will satisfy the in-residence graduate education 
requirement for future unrestricted line flag officers. 
    a.  Eligibility: Active duty O5-O6 URL and RL officers in designators 
1710, 1810, 1820, and 1830 are eligible to apply.  Post-command officers 
are preferred by the University of Oxford.  FTS officers are not eligible 
for the Hudson Fellowship. 
    b.  Program Specifics:  One (1) officer will be selected for 
AY2020-21. The Hudson Fellowship will begin in August 2020.  In addition 
to the U.S. Navy's Selection Board, a final screening and approval by the 
University of Oxford is required.  Applicants for the Hudson Fellowship 
must include a 2-page research proposal with their application.  The 
Oxford research proposal template can be found at the Naval Personnel 
Command's website under Education Placement: 
http://www/public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/officer/detailing/ 
educationplacement/pages/default.aspx. 
    c.  Per references (d) and (e), URL officers who complete the Hudson 
Fellowship will receive the 2300S subspecialty code and the 24D AQD code. RL 
officers will receive the 2000S subspecialty code and the 24D AQD code. 
    d.  Service Obligation: Per reference (a), Hudson fellows incur a service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
Fellowship.  Hudson Fellowship tours are normally 10-12 months.  The URL 
Hudson Fellow will serve at least one utilization tour in a validated naval 
strategist billet on a major N5 or J5 staff as soon as possible, but not 
later than the second subsequent shore tour.  Some officers may serve in 
multiple strategy positions after the fellowship tour, subject to career 
timing and on a not-to-interfere basis with their command or milestone tours. 
 
4.  Secretary of Defense Executive Fellows (SDEF): This program provides a 
venue for exceptional officers to experience innovative business practices 
within the nation's leading business enterprises. Military fellows from each 
of the Services are paired with senior executives in various companies known 
for their willingness to challenge and adapt their business practices. A 
successful SDEF tour, combined with any previous or future master's degree 
from an accredited university, will satisfy the in-residence graduate 
education requirement for future unrestricted line flag officers. 
    a.  Eligibility: All O5-O6 officers are eligible for the SDEF program, 
including Reserve and FTS. 
    b.  Program Specifics: Two (2) Navy officers will be selected for AY21-22 
through the PERS Multi-Board process.  Fellowships will begin in July 
2021.  Past fellows were assigned to corporations such as 3M, Apple, Amazon, 
Boeing, Caterpillar, Cisco Systems, Exxon Mobil, J.P. Morgan Chase, FedEx, 
General Dynamics, Google Intel, Lockheed Martin, Merck, Microsoft, Morgan 
Stanley, SalesForce.com, and SpaceX. 
    c.  All officers who complete the SDEF program will receive the 2000S 
subspecialty code and the 24F AQD code. More details regarding the SDEF 
program can be found at: 
http://prhome.defense.gov/readiness/educationtraining.sdef.aspx. 
    d.  Service Obligation: Per reference (b), SDEF graduates incur a service 
obligation that is three times (3x) the number of months of the 
fellowship.  SDEF tours are normally 12 months in length, depending on the 
required detachment for the next duty station. 
    e.  Utilization: One of the selected SDEF fellows may be assigned to a 
one-year follow-on tour at the Defense Business Board with the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense.  The remaining SDEF fellows should expect follow-on 
assignment to positions involved in strategic management issues related to 
innovation and transformation. 
    f.  Selection for the SDEF program does not guarantee a specific 
geographic location for the Fellowship.  Fellows should expect a PCS move and 
plan accordingly.  Only 15 percent of SDEF assignments are in the National 
Capitol Region. Corporate sponsors make the final decision on which Fellow 
will be assigned to them, based on career experience and capabilities. 
 
5. Application Procedures and Timeline: 
    a.  Officers are encouraged to apply to all fellowships for which they 
are eligible.  A single application for multiple programs is acceptable. 
Annotate which programs you are applying for in the subject line. 
    b. Type Commanders and community managers are encouraged to identify top 
candidates for these program and encourage their applications to ensure the 
Navy's future leaders have full access to these programs. 
    c. Upon selection, OPNAV N7 will work with fellows and community managers 
to identify and approve follow-on reutilization tours for officers not 
proceeding directly to command or milestone billets. 
    d.  Applications require a personal statement to the board, a curriculum 
vitae, biography, and endorsement letters from your commanding officer and 
detailer.  Note reference (a), enclosure 1 for a sample application package. 
    e.  Interested officers should submit applications for all programs via 
encrypted email to the NAVPERSCOM and OPNAV POCs listed in this 
NAVADMIN.  Prior to submission, ensure electronic copies are clear, legible, 
and properly endorsed.  If encrypted email is unavailable, mail applications 
to: 
 
Navy Personnel Command 
Attn: PERS 443B 
5720 Integrity Drive 
Millington, TN  38005 
 
Academic Year 2021-22 applications are due to Navy Personnel Command NLT 11 
September 2020.  All supplemental information to the Board must be received 
NLT 29 October 2020.  The selection board will convene in mid-November 2020. 
Results will be announced in December 2020. 
 
6.  Points of Contact/Questions: Contact the POCs listed below for 
program-specific details and questions.  Direct all application-only 
questions to either OPNAV N712 or NAVPERSCOM. 
    a.  OPNAV (FEF/HUDSON): Mr. Edward Fay (N712B); DSN 260-4782 or  
Comm 571-256-4782; email: edward.fay(at)navy.mil; David Loneman, N712;  
DSN 225-5461 or Comm 703-695-5461; email: david.r.loneman.ctr(at)navy.mil. 
    b.  NAVPERSCOM (FEF/HUDSON): PERS-440_submit.fct(at)navy.mil. 
    c.  OSD (SDEF): Mr. Steven E. Briggs; 202-409-3068;  
email: steven.e.briggs2.civ(at)mail.mil. 
 
7. Released by Vice Admiral S. B. Munsch, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations 
for Warfighting Development (N7)// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
UNCLASSIFIED//

